Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 115th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1
Vol. 164 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 2018 No. 1
House of Representatives
This being the day fixed pursuant to
the 20th Amendment to the Constitu-
tion for the meeting of the Second Ses-
sion of the 115th Congress, the House
met at noon and was called to order by
the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
MCHENRY).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 3, 2018.
I hereby appoint the Honorable PATRICK T.
MCHENRY to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
PAUL D. RYAN,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving God, we give You thanks for
giving us another year.
We give You thanks also for the First
Session of the 115th Congress, and Your
sustaining us with Your presence, wis-
dom, patience, and love. We ask that
the efforts of the first session might
prove fruitful in the benefits
redounding to our Nation and its peo-
ple.
We ask Your blessing now on each
Member of Congress, that they might
be their best selves in representing not
only their constituents, but also the
entire American citizenry. They have
taken oaths to do so; give them the
strength and the wisdom to fulfill
those oaths.
We thank You as well for this mar-
velous forum, where the important
business of this Nation has been done
in the past and will be done in the up-
coming second session. May the work
to be done be inspired by the wisdom of
prophets and the love of saintly people.
May all that we do be done for Your
greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The Speaker pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 4(a) of House Resolution
670, no organizational or legislative
business will be conducted on this day.
Bills and resolutions introduced
today will receive a number but will
not be referred to committee or noted
in the RECORD until a subsequent day.
Executive communications, memorials,
and petitions likewise will be referred
and numbered on a subsequent day.
f
ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 4(c) of House Resolution
670, the House stands adjourned until
noon on Friday, January 5, 2018.
Thereupon (at 12 o’clock and 3 min-
utes p.m.), the House adjourned until
Friday, January 5, 2018, at noon.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. ROYCE of California: Committee on
Foreign Affairs. H.R. 3776. A bill to support
United States international cyber diplo-
macy, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 115–483). Referred to the
Committee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
Mr. ROYCE of California: Committee on
Foreign Affairs. H.R. 3445. A bill to enhance
the transparency and accelerate the impact
of programs under the African Growth and
Opportunity Act and the Millennium Chal-
lenge Corporation, and for other purposes
(Rept. 115–484). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:54 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA7.000 H03JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 115th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1
Vol. 164 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 2018 No. 1
Senate
The 3d day of January being pre-
scribed by the Constitution of the
United States for the annual meeting
of the Congress, the 2d session of the
115th Congress commenced this day at
12 noon.
The Senate assembled in its Chamber
at the Capitol.
The Senate was called to order by the
Honorable THOM TILLIS, a Senator from
the State of North Carolina.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Everlasting God, our light and our
salvation, You are the strength and
shield of our Nation and world. Lord,
as we receive the gift of this new year,
we thank You for fresh starts and new
mercies.
May our lawmakers seize the seeds of
opportunity that reside in the soil of
their tomorrows, laboring diligently to
ensure an abundant harvest. Teach
them to number their days as they re-
member that they pass this way but
once. Lord, remind them that Your
hand is on the helm of human affairs
and that You still guide Your world.
Give our legislators the integrity to
strive to do all the good they can, for
as many as they can, for as long as
they can. Bless our Senators who are
leaving and those who are coming.
We pray in Your sovereign Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. HATCH).
The legislative clerk read the fol-
lowing letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, January 3, 2018.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable THOM TILLIS, a Sen-
ator from the State of North Carolina, to
perform the duties of the Chair.
ORRIN G. HATCH,
President pro tempore.
Mr. TILLIS thereupon assumed the
Chair as Acting President pro tempore.
f
CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION AND
CERTIFICATE OF APPOINTMENT
The VICE PRESIDENT. The Chair
lays before the Senate the certificate
of election to fill the unexpired term
for the State of Alabama and the cer-
tificate of appointment to fill the un-
expired term for the State of Min-
nesota. The certificates, the Chair is
advised, are in the form suggested by
the Senate or contain all the essential
requirements of the form suggested by
the Senate. If there be no objection,
the reading of the certificates will be
waived and they will be printed in full
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the certifi-
cates were ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
STATE OF ALABAMA
CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION FOR UNEXPIRED
TERM
To the President of the Senate of the United
States:
This is to certify that on the 12th day of
December, 2017, Doug Jones was duly chosen
by the qualified electors of the State of Ala-
bama a Senator for the unexpired term end-
ing at noon on the 3rd day of January, 2021,
to fill the vacancy in the representation
from said State in the Senate of the United
States caused by the appointment of the
Honorable Jeff Sessions to the position of
United States Attorney General.
Witness: Her Excellency our Governor Kay
Ivey, and our seal hereto affixed at 1:10 PM
this 28th day of December, in the year of our
Lord 2017.
By the Governor:
KAY IVEY,
Governor.
Attest:
JOHN H. MERRILL,
Secretary of State.
[State Seal Affixed]
STATE OF MINNESOTA
Executive Department
CERTIFICATE OF APPOINTMENT OF UNITED
STATES SENATOR FROM MINNESOTA
To the President of the Senate of the United
States:
This is to certify that, pursuant to the
power vested in me by the Constitution of
the United States and the laws of the State
of Minnesota, I, Mark B. Dayton, the Gov-
ernor of said State, do hereby appoint Tina
Smith a Senator from said State to rep-
resent said State in the Senate of the United
States until the vacancy therein, caused by
the resignation of Al Franken, is filled by
election as provided by law.
In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my
hand and caused the Great Seal of the State
of Minnesota to be affixed at the State Cap-
itol, in Saint Paul, Minnesota this 2nd day of
January, 2018.
MARK DAYTON,
Governor.
STEVE SIMON,
Secretary of State.
[State Seal Affixed]
f
ADMINISTRATION OF OATH OF
OFFICE
The VICE PRESIDENT. If the Sen-
ator-elect and the Senator-designate to
be sworn in will now present them-
selves at the desk, the Chair will ad-
minister their oaths of office.
The Senator-elect, DOUG JONES, and
the Senator-designate, TINA SMITH, es-
corted by Mr. Biden, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
and Mr. Mondale, respectively, ad-
vanced to the desk of the Vice Presi-
dent; the oath prescribed by law was
administered to them by the Vice
President; and they subscribed to the
oath in the Official Oath Book.
The VICE PRESIDENT. Congratula-
tions, Senators.
(Applause, Senators rising.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:36 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.000 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2 January 3, 2018
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
WELCOMING NEW SENATORS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, as
we open the 2nd session of the 115th
Congress, I am pleased to welcome my
colleagues back to the Chamber.
I would like to extend a particular
welcome to our two new Senators, who
were just sworn in. First, Senator DOUG
JONES of Alabama will have big shoes
to fill. His State has sent very distin-
guished legislators to Washington, in-
cluding our Attorney General, Jeff Ses-
sions. Senator JONES brings a back-
ground in law enforcement, having
served as a Federal prosecutor in the
Northern District of Alabama. We wel-
come him.
We also welcome Senator TINA
SMITH. For 3 years, she has served the
people of Minnesota as their Lieuten-
ant Governor. Now she will join Sen-
ator KLOBUCHAR in representing them
here in the Senate.
I congratulate both of these new Sen-
ators. I look forward to working with
them in the months ahead to make bi-
partisan progress and to find common
ground on behalf of the American peo-
ple.
f
FUNDING THE GOVERNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. The Senate will
need to tackle a number of important
issues this year. It is my sincere hope
that we can do so in a renewed spirit of
comity, collegiality, and bipartisan-
ship. I know that colleagues on both
sides of the aisle share this hope, and it
is urgent that we make it a reality.
Congress must reach a spending agree-
ment by January 19 to ensure uninter-
rupted funding for the Federal Govern-
ment.
Among several key priorities, it is
vital that our agreement provide suffi-
cient resources for our all-volunteer
Armed Forces. Under the Budget Con-
trol Act, America’s military has been
stretched thin by disproportionate cuts
that have harmed our combat readi-
ness. Since 2013, defense cuts have out-
paced domestic spending cuts by $85
billion. I am going to say that again:
Since fiscal year 2013, defense cuts have
outpaced domestic spending cuts by $85
billion. To fix this, we need to set aside
the arbitrary notion that new defense
spending be matched equally by new
nondefense spending. There is no rea-
son why funding for our national secu-
rity and our servicemembers should be
limited by an arbitrary political for-
mula that bears no relationship to ac-
tual need.
So let’s come together across the
aisle and construct a funding agree-
ment that gives our men and women in
uniform the tools and the training they
need.
IRAN
Mr. MCCONNELL. Now, on another
matter, Mr. President, over the last
week, one of the often overlooked costs
of Iran’s regional aggression has come
to light. Iranians have taken to the
streets in protest, demanding that Su-
preme Leader Khamenei and President
Rouhani do more to expand the domes-
tic economy. Iran’s actions in Yemen,
Syria, and Iraq and its support for
proxies such as Hezbollah have diverted
resources away from economic reform
and investment. While the government
has prioritized payments to the mili-
tary and security elites and clerical in-
stitutions, the people throughout Iran
have suffered. Now their discontent is
fully evident.
As part of our overall strategy to-
ward Iran, which should be focused on
ending Iran’s malign activities across
the Middle East, we should hold ac-
countable any officials behind a crack-
down on these protests. The coming
days will be noteworthy as we wait to
see if hardliners use these protests as
an excuse to promote more aggressive
policies against the West and to tight-
en their grip further on the country
and its economy.
f
TRIBUTE TO ORRIN HATCH
Mr. MCCONNELL. Now, on one final
matter, Mr. President, yesterday a
very distinguished Senator announced
his intention to retire at the end of
this Congress. For more than 40 years,
Senator ORRIN HATCH has served the
people of Utah in this body. He is not
only our President pro tempore, but, as
we celebrated last year, Senator HATCH
is also the longest serving Republican
Senator in the history of the United
States.
During this historic tenure, Senator
HATCH has chaired three key commit-
tees. He has amassed deep expertise
across all manner of policy issues, and
he has built a truly remarkable resume
of accomplishments on behalf of the
American people.
Senator HATCH has defended our na-
tional security and our religious free-
dom. He has fought to protect Ameri-
cans with disabilities and to shepherd
fine judges onto our courts. Just last
month, as Senate Finance Committee
chairman, he played an integral role in
passing the most significant tax reform
law in more than 30 years.
Senator HATCH’s colleagues here will
be sorry to see him retire. I will miss
his friendship, but I know his wife
Elaine and his beloved family will be
glad to welcome him home.
Fortunately, it is not yet time to say
farewell. This institution and the
American people will benefit greatly
from the Senator’s wisdom and famous
work ethic for one more year before his
retirement.
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 2274
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand that there is a bill at the
desk due for a second reading.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator is correct.
The clerk will read the bill by title
for the second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2274) to provide for the compensa-
tion of Federal employees affected by lapses
in appropriations.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, in
order to place the bill on the calendar
under the provisions of rule XIV, I ob-
ject to further proceedings.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Objection having been heard, the
bill will be placed on the calendar.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Democratic leader is recog-
nized.
f
WELCOMING NEW SENATORS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first,
as we begin the 2nd session of the 115th
Congress, I welcome all of my col-
leagues back from the holiday break
and wish them a happy new year, and I
wish our country a wonderful 2018. I
was also very gratified to see two of
the best former Vice Presidents we
have ever had on the floor today for
the ceremonies. I am glad to see former
Senators Mondale and Biden—former
Vice Presidents Mondale and Biden—as
feisty and as strong as they have ever
been and giving us their opinions.
It is also very exciting to welcome
two new Members to this body who will
be joining the Democratic caucus, TINA
SMITH from Minnesota and DOUG JONES
from Alabama. In joining this es-
teemed body, both bring a wealth of ex-
perience and individual passions.
Former Lieutenant Governor TINA
SMITH brings with her several years of
experience serving at the highest levels
of State Government, where she fo-
cused on economic development and
expanding access to rural broadband
and affordable healthcare, issues she
will continue to fight for here in the
Senate. In that work, Governor Dayton
praised her as ‘‘extremely intelligent,
quick to learn and always open to hear-
ing others’ views.’’ She was also dubbed
the ‘‘velvet hammer’’ by the mayor of
Minneapolis for her ability to work
across the aisle but also to get tough
when she needs to be. Those are pre-
cisely the kinds of qualities that make
an effective Senator. The people of
Minnesota are lucky to have Senator
SMITH, and we look forward to wel-
coming her in our next caucus.
We also look forward to welcoming
Senator DOUG JONES—the first Demo-
crat from the State of Alabama in a
quarter century. He, too, represents
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:36 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.003 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3
January 3, 2018
the very best of public service, the very
best of America, and the things we as-
pire to in this country. One story from
his biography stands out. As a second-
year law student, DOUG JONES skipped
class to attend the trial of the Klans-
man ringleader of the 1963 bombing of
the 16th Street Baptist Church, an
event that shook the conscience of our
country and helped launch a mighty
movement for civil rights. That day a
young DOUG JONES was moved by the
disposition of justice, but he was left
with the impression that other mem-
bers of the conspiracy had escaped the
reach of the law. So 24 years later,
when DOUG JONES became the U.S. at-
torney for the State of Alabama, he
pursued charges against two more Klan
members involved in the bombing, win-
ning their conviction and delivering a
long-delayed but righteous justice.
With his work, justice rolled down like
a mighty stream. He will continue to
fight for civil rights and many other
issues here in the Senate. I know he
cares deeply about the CHIP program,
which covers 150,000 young Alabamans.
I hope we can get that done for his
State and this country very soon.
DOUG JONES was an excellent can-
didate. Like Senator SMITH, he will
make an outstanding Senator—she for
the State of Minnesota and he for the
State of Alabama. The voices of JONES
and SMITH will add to the diversity of
energy of our caucus. I predict that
both will become influential voices in
this historic Chamber.
Each of their States had great foot-
ball victories this weekend, I might
add. I watched Alabama win over
Clemson—sorry, LINDSEY and TIM. I
watched Minnesota, my favorite team
outside of the three New York teams,
come in second in the whole NFC, and
it got a bye week as we moved to the
playoffs. So it is a great day for these
two States in a whole lot of ways this
weekend, and it is very good so far in
2018 with the swearing in of these two
Senators.
f
A NEW DIRECTION
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, in the
second half of the 115th Congress now,
let’s talk a little bit about a new direc-
tion. Let the induction of these two
Senators this afternoon be the begin-
ning of a new direction for the Senate
in the second half of this Congress.
The first half of the 115th Congress
was not a year to be proud of. Partisan
legislation emerged from the majority
leader’s office and was dropped on the
floor of the Senate, sometimes merely
hours before we were asked to vote on
its final passage. Procedural gimmicks
were used to avoid the Senate’s long
history of debate and bipartisanship.
An economy wracked by unfairness and
inequality was made even more unfair
and more unequal by the Republican
majority, which almost delighted in re-
voking consumer protections to help
big business, installed a pro-corporate
Supreme Court, drove up healthcare
premiums, and passed a tax bill dra-
matically skewed to the benefit of big
corporations and the very wealthy. All
in all, 2017 was a great year for wealthy
Republican donors but a lost year for
the middle class and the working men
and women of this country.
We Democrats hope this year is dif-
ferent—focused on the middle class
rather than the rich and powerful, fo-
cused on helping them in the ways we
have done in the last decades, with
both Democratic and Republican Presi-
dents, rather than this trickle down
that benefits the few at the top and
does not benefit the very many in the
middle.
In these first few weeks, we have a
chance to start off on the right foot.
We have 2 weeks to negotiate a budget
deal that also must address a host of
other issues, including CHIP, commu-
nity health centers, disaster aid and, of
course, the Dreamers.
Democrats would also like our coun-
try to make a downpayment on urgent
domestic priorities like combating the
opioid epidemic, a scourge that for the
first time helped cause our life expect-
ancy to decline because of the higher
death rate from opioids.
We want to improve veterans’
healthcare. They served us, and we
must serve them. We must shore up
pension plans for millions of hard-
working, middle-class Americans who
put money in every month and, be-
cause of the stock market crash and
sometimes corporate misdeeds, aren’t
getting what they put in for. These
items are crucial to the middle class.
Take opioids, for example. In 2016, a
record 63,000 Americans died of drug
overdoses, and two-thirds or more were
opioid-related. It is a full-fledged epi-
demic that strikes the rich, the middle
class, and the poor alike. It strikes
urban America, suburban America, and
rural America alike.
I had a father cry in my arms be-
cause his son a had decided to turn
himself around and signed up for a
treatment program, but the line was so
long because the funding is so scarce
that the young man died of an overdose
before he could enter treatment. The
opioid crisis is stealing our youth. We
have known about it for years. It is not
new. It is heartbreaking how much we
know about it, but how little we have
done about it.
The American people sent us here to
do the Nation’s business. That means
addressing its greatest challenges. So
let’s make a real investment in this
budget deal and how we treat this
scourge. The budget is the right place
to start.
A few years ago, we made a promise
to hundreds of thousands of children
who were brought to the United States
through no fault of their own that if
they registered with the government,
we wouldn’t deport them. We said: We
want you to be Americans, learn in our
schools, work in our companies, serve
in our military. So 800,000 Dreamers
came forward and did that because,
above all else, they wanted to be Amer-
icans. They don’t know another coun-
try.
Now we are faced with a deadline. In
a few months, protections for Dreamers
will evaporate. A thousand Dreamers
are losing protected status each week.
It is time that Congress passed DACA
protections into law and fixed this once
and for all.
Democrats, including myself, led by
our great Senator from Illinois, a mem-
ber of our leadership team, Mr. DURBIN,
have said over and over again: We are
ready to negotiate a reasonable pack-
age of border security to pass alongside
DACA. We believe in border security.
We want to make it work. We want to
make it real, not just be symbolic; we
believe in it. If our Republican col-
leagues and the President engage in
good-faith negotiations without unrea-
sonable demands like an absurdly ex-
pensive, ineffective border wall that
many Republicans publicly oppose—
and privately many more do—I don’t
doubt we can reach an agreement on
DACA that is acceptable to both sides.
I would like to thank our Acting Presi-
dent pro tempore for his active in-
volvement in this regard as well.
In contrast to a year of chaos and in-
effectiveness—a year in which little
was accomplished, and what was done
was done for the wealthy and the nar-
row special interests—I hope this year
can be one of bipartisanship, focused on
improving the stock of the middle
class. They are the ones hurting in
America. They are the ones who need
help. They are the ones who worry
about the future of this grand, wonder-
ful country.
We can start on the budget with
opioids, veterans’ healthcare, pensions,
children’s health insurance, and dis-
aster aid. We can resolve the fate of the
Dreamers and say to these hard-work-
ing kids that America has a place for
them too.
Later today, the four congressional
leaders will meet with Budget Director
Mick Mulvaney and representatives of
the White House to begin these nego-
tiations in earnest—I hope—and will
work for their success.
f
FOREIGN POLICY AND PRESI-
DENTIAL MORAL AUTHORITY
Mr. SCHUMER. Finally, a word on
national security. The Senate has a
role in conducting the Nation’s foreign
policy, but as head of state, the Presi-
dent of the United States represents
our country to the world. That is a
very serious and very sober responsi-
bility that requires restraint, intel-
ligence, sound judgment, and a respect
for the moral authority that comes
with the awesome responsibility of
being the world’s sole remaining super-
power.
Over the course of the past year,
President Trump, unfortunately, has
progressively squandered the moral au-
thority that comes with the Presidency
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:36 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.004 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4 January 3, 2018
of the United States—a moral author-
ity that this country has taken genera-
tions to build, that helps us bring a
light to the world and helps us eco-
nomically in every other way, as the
world has always looked up to America
and our ideals.
Unfortunately, that moral authority
is declining under President Trump’s
leadership—and declining rapidly. It
may have reached the low point yester-
day when President Trump, in tweet
after tweet, offered a very poor rep-
resentation of the United States to the
world. More than that, President
Trump’s ‘‘foreign policy by tweet’’ is
doing serious damage to the country.
While we have serious issues to address
abroad, President Trump seems happy
with macho boasts and belligerent
threats that get us nowhere. If any one
of us were in a classroom with someone
who behaved as President Trump has,
we would ostracize them; we would
straighten them out. We don’t hear a
peep from the vast majority of our Re-
publican colleagues about this, many
of whom are hawks.
We have serious issues to address
abroad. President Trump’s ‘‘foreign
policy by tweet’’ will not advance our
standing in the world. It will not reas-
sure our allies or other nations that it
is better to work with us than against
us. What it will do—what it has al-
ready done, unfortunately, is unsettle
our allies and embolden our adver-
saries. What it will do is cede leader-
ship in the world to China, which is ea-
gerly awaiting every opportunity to
drive a wedge between our country and
other countries around the world.
Without a steady and reliable hand at
the helm, our allies may be uncertain
that they can continue to trust the
United States to honor our commit-
ments and maintain a steady course.
China and Russia are rushing to fill
the void left by an unsteady United
States. President Xi of China aspired
to this position of being a world leader
in his new year’s speech when he said
that China, not the United States,
would be the ‘‘keeper of the inter-
national order’’ in 2018. If President
Trump continues snubbing our allies,
recklessly threatening other nations,
and showing leadership on the world
stage that can only be described as pu-
erile, the world may look to Beijing,
not Washington, for international lead-
ership.
Again, I repeat: Where are our
friends, the Republican hawks, who
have been so concerned about Amer-
ica’s leadership in the world, who have
decried the fact that President Obama
did not do enough for that leadership?
If he were here, my dear friend, Sen-
ator JOHN MCCAIN, would typically
stand up and speak about this, and
hopefully he will be back soon to do so.
But for the rest of my Republican
friends, I would say with sincerity—not
with partisanship, but out of love for
the country and the leadership we have
shown for decades and decades—that
our Republican friends should, please,
tell the President: Stop tweeting; start
leading.
We are almost through a calendar
year of the Trump Presidency. Presi-
dent Trump can no longer be given the
benefit of the doubt that comes with
learning one of the toughest jobs in the
world. My Republican colleagues
should not be given a pass by the
American people if they fail to speak
out or take action against this behav-
ior. Their silence, unfortunately—I
have to say, I feel this sincerely—is
complicity in the degradation of the
Presidency and the power of this coun-
try.
The American people expect our
President to represent the United
States with dignity and strength. That
is not what we saw yesterday. It is
time we all start speaking out against
it.
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Democratic leader.
f
LETTER OF RESIGNATION
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the letter of
resignation from Lieutenant Governor
SMITH to Governor Dayton be printed
in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the letter
was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
STATE OF MINNESOTA,
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR TINA SMITH,
Saint Paul, MN, December 28, 2017.
Hon. MARK DAYTON,
State Capitol,
Saint Paul, MN.
DEAR GOVERNOR DAYTON: Effective 11:59
p.m. January 2, 2018, I hereby resign the Of-
fice of Lieutenant Governor of the State of
Minnesota. It has been an honor and privi-
lege to serve the people of Minnesota.
Sincerely,
TINA SMITH,
Lt. Governor.
Mr. SCHUMER. I yield the floor.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will be in a period of morning
business, with Senators permitted to
speak therein for up to 10 minutes
each.
The Senator from Illinois.
f
FUNDING THE GOVERNMENT
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, it has
been less than 2 weeks since we con-
vened in the Senate, and those of us
who have returned to the floor of the
Senate may not notice any change, but
there is a significant change. If you
take a close look, one desk has moved
from that side of the aisle to this side
of the aisle. There are currently 49
Democratic Senators after the swear-
ing in of our colleague, Senator DOUG
JONES of Alabama. Now it is 49 to 51. It
is almost as close a break as you can
expect or even anticipate in a delibera-
tive body.
It is an indication of more than just
the acquisition of one additional
Democratic Senator. We are moving
closer and closer to parity, closer and
closer to one another, and, I hope, clos-
er and closer in solving problems. I
think that was a message of the Ala-
bama election; among other things, the
American people want to see us work
together. They have given us 49 and the
Republicans 51. I think they expect
that to be a signal that we should fi-
nally sit down and do something to
solve the problems facing our great Na-
tion. I feel that as I go home—of
course, I run into my loyal Democratic
friends who have their own political
views, but the vast majority of people
say: Can’t you work together and solve
something? Can’t you do something for
this Nation? I believe we can, and this
month we must.
You see, on January 19 there is a
deadline looming. It is only a couple of
weeks away. On January 19, we have to
make some very momentous, historic
decisions about the rest of this year
and beyond. One of those is where we
will spend the taxpayers’ dollars. How
much will we spend on the defense of
our Nation? How much will we spend
on other agencies, which, I would add,
also defend our Nation? That has to be
decided by 60 votes. Do the math. As
whip on the Democratic side, I have
said that I learned basically all I need-
ed to know about this job in the first
grade. I learned how to count to 60.
On January 19, we need at least 60
Senators to agree on the spending pro-
gram for this country moving forward,
not just the Department of Defense but
the Department of Homeland Security,
the FBI, the Department of State, and
so many other critically important
agencies.
The second thing we need to do is
long overdue. The fiscal year, the oper-
ative fiscal year for the Federal Gov-
ernment starts on October 1. We are a
long way from October 1, 2017. We still
don’t have a budget. We still have not
brought the appropriations bills to the
floor of the Senate for consideration.
I am not going to be partisan about
this. We failed as Democrats in bring-
ing those appropriations to the floor in
a timely manner as well. We have to do
something about this process, but we
certainly have to face the reality that
we are steaming through this fiscal
year without a budget. We have taken
last year’s budget and continued to live
by last year’s budget. Reflect, for a mo-
ment, if you did the same thing for
your family. If you were determined to
spend in January of 2018 exactly what
you spent in 2017, you would think to
yourself: That makes no sense. The
utility bills are different. I may have a
different mortgage payment. A lot of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:36 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.005 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5
January 3, 2018
things have changed. But we can’t
change until we pass a budget bill.
That, too, is facing a January 19 dead-
line. Again, it will require 60 votes.
Here are two major issues—the caps
on spending and the budget for our gov-
ernment, which need to be passed by
January 19 on a bipartisan basis. It is
time to come together and face not
only those two overarching issues but
the long litany of issues that Senator
SCHUMER, the Democratic leader,
raised in his opening remarks.
There are so many other elements—
the Children’s Health Insurance Pro-
gram, affecting tens of thousands of
kids in my State of Illinois. They told
me when I was home: Senator, we are
running out of money to provide basic
medical care for kids across America.
Why haven’t you done your job to reau-
thorize this program, as well as the
program for community care clinics?
These clinics are critically important
for healthcare for thousands of families
in my State and across the Nation.
There is one more issue that I am
going to raise, as I have so many times,
standing in this particular place on the
floor, and that is the Dream Act. The
DREAM Act is a bill I introduced 16
years ago to give young people brought
to the United States as infants and
toddlers and children—they have grown
up in this country, have no serious
criminal issue they have been involved
in, and have graduated from our
schools—a chance for a future in Amer-
ica, the only country they have ever
known. They are the Dreamers.
President Obama gave them a chance
with an Executive order called DACA.
He said: You can come forward, submit
a $500 filing fee, go through a criminal
background check, and we may give
you—it is our decision—2 years of tem-
porary protection to stay in this coun-
try. You can work in this country, stay
here without fear of deportation on a 2-
year basis. So 780,000 young people
stepped forward and did that and were
approved. Now they are working across
America, and 900 of them serve in the
U.S. military. They are undocumented
by legal standards, but they have
sworn their loyalty to this country and
are willing to die for this country.
What more could we ask of a young
person to prove their loyalty to that
flag and to this Nation? Nine hundred
of them are now protected by DACA.
Then President Trump announced on
September 5 of last year that he was
going to eliminate that program,
eliminate that protection as of March 5
of this year. The clock is ticking; the
days on the calendar are turning.
There are 900 in our military; 20,000 are
teachers across America in grade
schools, elementary schools, and high
schools—at all levels—and 20,000 of
them protected by DACA will lose their
ability to teach starting on March 5 of
this year because of President Trump’s
decision and his announcement.
He challenged us. He said: Look, I
don’t like this Executive order by the
previous President; now pass a law.
Pass a law and do something about it.
He asked us to do that months ago,
and we have done nothing—nothing. I
believe that by January 19, we need to
take this up as one of the critical
issues on our agenda. It is absolutely
essential.
Let me add as well that this Presi-
dent has been critical of immigration. I
couldn’t disagree with him more. He
has taken an approach toward immi-
gration that I believe denies the very
basis and foundation of this great Na-
tion.
I have said it before, and I say it with
pride: I stand here on the floor of the
U.S. Senate representing the great
State of Illinois, the son of an immi-
grant to this country. My mother was
brought here at the age of 2—she was a
Dreamer in her era—and she grew up in
America, raised a family, and had a son
who was sworn in to the U.S. Senate.
She lived long enough to see that. That
is my story. That is my family’s story.
That is America’s story. Sometimes I
wonder if the President has heard that
story or paid attention to it.
Immigration has been at the heart of
who we are as Americans. The diver-
sity of this great country, when it has
come together in citizenship, has been
a force to be reckoned with around the
world throughout history. I still be-
lieve that as much this day as I have
ever believed it.
I may not be able to convince the
President, but President Obama and
others did plead with him to think
about these young people, these
Dreamers, those protected by DACA.
Do you know what President Trump
said about the Dreamers? Do you know
what he said in one of his famous—
sometimes infamous—tweets? He said
we should ‘‘show great heart.’’ ‘‘Show
great heart,’’ President Trump said, to
these young people.
That is why I am here today making
this statement on the floor—it is not a
long speech; I have spoken many times
in the past—to plead with my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle, in
this closely divided Senate, to get this
job done before January 19—not just
for the 780,000 who took advantage of
President Obama’s Executive order but
for those who were eligible and afraid.
There were many thousands who were
eligible for this program but afraid to
sign up for it, to turn themselves in to
the government, and they held back.
They are eligible. There is nothing to
disqualify them otherwise. Let’s give
them the same opportunity to be part
of the future of this great Nation. That
is what I believe we can do and should
do.
There are 49 Democrats and 51 Re-
publicans—carefully divided. Can
enough of us meet in that aisle to cre-
ate a real majority, a bipartisan major-
ity, to solve this? I am convinced we
can, as Senator SCHUMER said earlier.
Our Acting President pro tempore has
weighed in on it, and I thank him for
his efforts, his personal efforts, on this
issue. We have had long meetings.
Sometimes we agreed, sometimes we
didn’t agree, but that is the nature of
the Senate, the nature of compromise,
and the nature of a process that the
American people are begging us, Demo-
crats and Republicans, to engage in, in
a positive way by January 19 of this
month.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, before
the Democratic whip leaves the Cham-
ber, I want to thank him for his leader-
ship, his perspicacity, his determina-
tion on the issue of the Dreamers.
It is this Senator’s hope that come
January 19, when so many issues that
were outlined by the Democratic leader
all come to a head and have to be de-
cided in order for the Government of
the United States to stay open, that
one of the issues that will be addressed
will be allowing the Dreamers to stay
in this country legally, the only coun-
try they have ever known. So many of
us are grateful for Senator DURBIN’s
leadership on this issue.
We hope that in the spirit of unity,
which has escaped this Capitol of the
United States—that suddenly there
will be a spirit of unity to do the right
thing in a bipartisan way and that we
will be joined by our colleagues on the
other side of the aisle—now down to 51,
as Senator DURBIN has pointed out.
This should not be a partisan issue;
this should be an issue of right or
wrong for the Dreamers to be able to
stay in the country that they know as
their home.
I thank Senator DURBIN.
f
NET NEUTRALITY
Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, I would
like to speak about net neutrality. If
you don’t know what that means, you
really do when prompted because it
means that when you turn on your
phone, you go on the internet and you
decide what you want to see, and what
you want to see—or hear in the case of
video—you have the right to have that
access and to have it as speedily as any
other content that is offered on the
internet.
Entrepreneurs who are working out
of the garage of their family home and
who have a new idea and suddenly want
to get it on the internet—because they
are financially impaired since they are
just starting out, they should have an
opportunity, just as the big boys do, to
get their ideas on the internet.
Within the obvious boundaries of
what is appropriate in language, et
cetera, you have a right to get the con-
tent that you want and to get that con-
tent unimpeded on these tablets we
carry around in our pockets. That
right to get that content is threatened,
and it is threatened because the Fed-
eral Communications Commission, on
a partisan vote of 3 to 2, has com-
pletely overturned the previous rules
that had been set on a partisan vote
the other way of 3 to 2.
At the end of the day, what it means
is that those of us in this Chamber, led
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.006 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6 January 3, 2018
off first by the Commerce Committee,
are going to need a legislative solution,
but in the meantime, chaos has been
thrown into the system. Now, as a re-
sult of the previous year’s rules having
been completely reversed, they are
going to be all tangled up in Federal
court, and we are going to go on and on
and have this fight.
What I want to call to the attention
of the Senate today is that in the proc-
ess of the new rulemaking that re-
sulted in this 3-to-2 vote that has up-
ended everything—the process itself
was flawed.
Now, mind you, on net neutrality,
the public has no ambiguity on this, as
reported by the Wall Street Journal, as
reported by MSNBC.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that a Wall Street Journal article
from December 13, 2017, be printed in
the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[December 13, 2017]
WSJ—FAKE COMMENTS HIT RULE MAKING—
PHONY SUBMISSIONS TARGET NET NEUTRALITY
(By James V. Grimaldi and Paul Overberg)
A comment posted on the Federal Commu-
nications Commission’s public docket en-
dorses a Trump-administration plan to re-
peal a ‘‘net neutrality’’ policy requiring
internet providers to treat all web traffic the
same.
Calling the old Obama-era policy an ‘‘ex-
ploitation of the open Internet,’’ the com-
ment was posted on June 2 by Donna Duthie
of Lake Bluff, Ill.
It’s a fake. Ms. Duthie died 12 years ago.
The Wall Street Journal has uncovered
thousands of other fraudulent comments on
regulatory dockets at federal agencies, some
using what appear to be stolen identities
posted by computers programmed to pile
comments onto the dockets.
Reports earlier this year of fraudulent
comments on the FCC docket prompted the
Journal to investigate the phenomenon there
and at other federal agencies. After sending
surveys to nearly 1 million people—predomi-
nantly from the FCC docket—the Journal
found a much wider problem than previously
reported, including nearly 7,800 people who
told the Journal comments posted on federal
dockets in their names were fakes.
The Journal found instances of fakes that
favored antiregulation stances but also com-
ments mirroring consumer-groups’ pro-regu-
lation talking points, posted without permis-
sion of people whose names were on them.
Such distortions, often unknown even to
the agencies involved, cut against an impor-
tant element of democracy, the public’s abil-
ity to participate in federal rule-making.
The public-comment process, mandated by
law, can influence outcomes of regulations
affecting millions.
It is a federal felony to knowingly make
false, fictitious or fraudulent statements to
a U.S. agency.
The scope of the fake comments is evident
on the FCC website in 818,000 identical post-
ings backing its new internet policy. The
agency is expected on Thursday to roll back
President Barack Obama’s 2015 rules, which
telecommunication companies have called
onerous. Consumer groups and Internet gi-
ants such as Alphabet Inc.’s Google and
Facebook Inc. back the Obama rules and
have fought efforts by FCC Chairman Ajit
Pai to nix them.
In a random sample of 2,757 people whose
emails were used to post those 818,000 com-
ments, 72% said they had nothing to do with
them, according to a survey the Journal con-
ducted with research firm Mercury Ana-
lytics.
‘‘It makes me feel like our democracy is
broken,’’ said Jack Hirsch, chief executive of
software startup Butter.ai, who learned from
the Journal his name was on a fake submis-
sion supporting the Trump-administration
position, which he opposes, saying it would
harm his San Francisco firm.
Agencies generally accept public com-
ments via email, mail or hand delivery.
Some let people post directly onto their
websites. Some require registration first or
collect comments and then publicly post
them later.
The Journal heard from people reporting
fraudulent postings under their names and
email addresses at the FCC, Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection Bureau, Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission and Securities and
Exchange Commission.
One 369–word comment supporting the
Obama-era net-neutrality rules was posted
on the FCC website more than 300,000 times.
One of those was attributed to Gloria Bur-
ney, 87, a retired speech therapist in Los An-
geles. She isn’t in favor of repealing those
rules, she said, ‘‘but I never wrote that.’’
A comment from ‘‘Elzor The
Blarghmaster’’ at 9632 Elm Road, Maywood,
Ill., was among the 818,000 identical FCC
comments backing the Trump policy. No
such address could be found, said Jimmie
Thompson, a U.S. Postal Service carrier in
Maywood.
Comments filed with the SEC on the pro-
posed sale of the Chicago Stock Exchange in-
clude one submitted by ‘‘Jason Blake, com-
mentator, The Wall Street Journal.’’ The
Journal has had no employee by that name,
Journal spokesman Steve Severinghaus said.
The SEC said it removed the comment.
Asked what it does to verify commenters’
identities, the SEC said letters not attrib-
utable to known people or entities ‘‘are as-
sessed during the course of the rule-making
process.’’
CFPB spokesman John Czwartacki said:
‘‘Director [Mick] Mulvaney is concerned
about any inauthentic data that comes to
the Bureau. We intend to look into this mat-
ter further.’’ An agency official said the bu-
reau doesn’t verify each comment and
doesn’t require commenters to submit the
type of information that might assist in au-
thenticating their comments.
FERC spokeswoman Mary O’Driscoll,
asked what the agency does to verify com-
menters’ identities, said: ‘‘If someone be-
lieves that they have been misrepresented in
comments filed with us, they should contact
us to let us know.’’
FCC spokesman Brian Hart said question-
able comments on its net-neutrality rule in-
cluded some ‘‘submitted in the name of Su-
perman and Batman, among others. These
comments, however, are generally not sub-
stantive so thus have no impact on a rule-
making.’’ Asked what the FCC does to verify
identities, he said: ‘‘We err on the side of
keeping the public record open and do not
have the resources to investigate every com-
ment that is filed.’’
Under the Administrative Procedure Act,
agencies must take comments under consid-
eration but needn’t pay heed to them. The
impact often comes afterward, when the reg-
ulated parties appeal to the next administra-
tion, the courts or Congress, which can alter
a rule or slow its implementation. Failure to
consider comments has become a factor in
litigation, with judges sometimes forcing an
agency to address comments it ignored.
‘‘Astroturf lobbying’’—typically when an
interest group gins up support from individ-
uals and characterizes it as a grass-roots
movement—has been around Washington for
decades.
Agencies were already swamped with com-
ments from these mass emailings of dupli-
cate comments, which aren’t considered
fraud if groups submitting them have au-
thorization from individuals named. The
CFPB last year had such a hard time man-
aging the 1.4 million comments on its pay-
day-lending rule that it fired one contractor
and hired a new one to process them, accord-
ing to internal emails released under the
Freedom of Information Act.
As with many agencies, the CFPB opts not
to put many of the duplicative comments on-
line. It posted 200,000 ‘‘unique’’ comments
out of the 1.4 million on its payday-lending
proposal.
But postings the Journal uncovered went
beyond being merely duplicative. They in-
cluded comments from stolen email address-
es, defunct email accounts and people who
unwittingly gave permission for their com-
ments to be posted. Hundreds of identities on
fake comments were found in an online cata-
log of hacks and breaches.
While many fakes were anti-regulatory,
the Journal also found pro-regulatory com-
ments on the FCC and FERC websites where
people said they didn’t post them. In most of
those cases, the people surveyed said they
agreed with the comments, indicating that
while they didn’t authorize them, a group or
individual might have had their names in a
list of like-minded people, possibly from the
organization posting it. Some of these people
said they were angry that someone who had
access to their email address would post it,
even though they agreed.
The largest number of comments the Jour-
nal confirmed as phony were to the FCC, one
of few agencies to routinely post email ad-
dresses with comments. Its net-neutrality
rule has generated 23 million comments.
Suspicions of fakery in net-neutrality
comments emerged in May, when thousands
of emails poured into the FCC after HBO’s
‘‘Last Week Tonight with John Oliver’’
urged viewers to support the Obama policy.
They were followed by thousands backing re-
peal.
Chicago programmer Chris Sinchok said he
spotted a sharp increase in comments that
began: ‘‘The unprecedented regulatory power
the Obama administration imposed on the
internet is smothering innovation.’’
He found a near-constant rate—1,000 every
10 minutes—punctuated by periods of zero
comments, as if web robots were turning on
and off. He determined many were from
hacked accounts.
After Mr. Sinchok and a pro-net-neutrality
group, Fight for the Future, blogged that
they found indications thousands of FCC
comments might be fakes using stolen iden-
tities, New York Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman in May began a criminal in-
vestigation.
The Journal examined those ‘‘unprece-
dented regulatory power’’ comments. Dupli-
cates of it exceeded any other comment, ac-
cording to Quid Inc., a San Francisco tech
firm that analyzes massive amounts of con-
tent and studied the data at the Journal’s re-
quest.
The comment has been posted on the FCC
website more than 818,000 times. The Journal
sent surveys to 531,000 email accounts associ-
ated with that comment. More than 7,000
bounced back, the accounts defunct. Of the
2,757 who responded, 1,994, or 72%, said the
comment was falsely submitted. The sur-
vey’s margin of error was plus or minus
1.86% points.
The survey’s results are ‘‘a very significant
indication of fraud,’’ Mercury Analytics CEO
Ron Howard said. ‘‘Generating tens and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.007 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7
January 3, 2018
sometimes hundreds of thousands of fake
posts on public comment websites for the
purpose of swaying public opinion and im-
pacting the opinions of political decision
makers is wide-scale,’’ he said, ‘‘not limited
to a party, not limited to an issue.’’
Though a majority of those who responded
agreed with the comments attributed to
them, many were alarmed their identities
had been misappropriated.
‘‘How the hell is this possible ??????’’ Jes-
sica Lints of Blossvale, N.Y., wrote the Jour-
nal. ‘‘And if these people are so damn con-
cerned about this issue that I know nothing
about why are they not using their own
names?’’ Mrs. Lints, an assistant Boy Scout
scoutmaster, said she is careful about not ex-
pressing political opinions.
The Journal also examined 2.8 million of
the 23 million comments in four clusters and
sent surveys to 956,000 of those addresses—in-
cluding the 531,000 sent to the ‘‘unprece-
dented regulatory power’’ commenters—
seeking to verify the people made the com-
ments.
Based on the responses, three batches ex-
pressing anti-regulatory viewpoints were
63%, 72% and 80% bogus comments. The
fourth set, in favor of the old rules, was 32%
bogus.
Mr. Hart, the FCC spokesman, said the
‘‘most suspicious activity has been by those
supporting Internet regulation.’’ He said the
FCC received more than 7.5 million com-
ments consisting of the same short-form let-
ter supporting the current rules, ‘‘all gen-
erated by a single fake e-mail generator
website.’’ He said the FCC received more
than 400,000 comments supporting the old
rules ‘‘from the same address in Russia.’’
A review of the FCC comments by data-
analytics firm Emprata determined that 36%
of the docket, 7.75 million comments, were
attributable to FakeMailGenerator.com, a
site that generates one-time emails and
can’t receive emails. The analysis was com-
missioned by a group of telecommunications
firms that support the Trump-administra-
tion proposal.
These contained nearly identical com-
ments, virtually all opposing the proposal,
Emprata said. Emprata CEO Paul Salasznyk
said ‘‘our analysis was conducted in an inde-
pendent fashion.’’ Efforts to locate
FakeMailGenerator.com representatives
weren’t successful.
Reports of the fake FCC comments have
led some lawmakers to demand probes. After
Fight for the Future said it found about 24
people saying they hadn’t posted the ‘‘un-
precedented regulatory power’’ comment,
Rep. Frank Pallone Jr. of New Jersey asked
the Justice Department to investigate those
comments as criminal acts.
The Justice Department hasn’t responded
to the request, Mr. Pallone’s spokesman
said. Justice spokeswoman Lauren Ehrsam
confirmed the letter was received, declining
to comment further. Mr. Pallone and 10
other members last week wrote the Govern-
ment Accountability Office seeking an inves-
tigation. The GAO said it already had plans
next year to begin examining the FCC’s in-
formation-security controls, including over
internet comments.
It is difficult to determine who is behind
phony comments. The Journal found clues in
data embedded in online documents, which
showed more than 4,000 fake comments had
been submitted to the CFPB through
IssueHound, a Richmond, Va., firm. It
charges interest groups to use its software
and create websites to gather hundreds and
thousands of like-minded people to write
unique comments or send pre-written state-
ments to lawmakers and regulators. Its
website says it ‘‘randomly selects related
paragraphs and generates unique letters.’’
Jay Thomas Smith, an IssueHound spokes-
man, said clients ‘‘use our program because
it affords greater flexibility for letter-writ-
ers, more accurately expressing the writer’s
views on an issue,’’ adding that the software
‘‘requires human input.’’ He declined to com-
ment on CFPB-rule work.
IssueHound played a role in anomalies the
Journal found on the CFPB’s site seeking
comment on its proposal to tighten payday-
lending rules, set to take effect July 2019.
Quid reviewed the 200,000 ‘‘unique’’ com-
ments the CFPB posted on its payday-lend-
ing proposal. They weren’t entirely unique.
More than 100 sentences opposing the payday
rule each appeared within more than 350 dif-
ferent comments.
This sentence was embedded in 492 com-
ments: ‘‘I sometimes wondered how I would
be able to pay for my high power bill, espe-
cially in the hot summer and cold winters.’’
The Journal emailed about 13,000 surveys
to those posting comments to the CFPB site.
About 120 completed surveys. Four out of 10
said they didn’t send the comment associ-
ated with them. These comments opposed
the new regulations.
Ashley Marie Mireles, 26, said she didn’t
write the comment posted on the CFPB’s
website under her name but had clues how it
got there. Her former employer, payday lend-
er California Check Cashing Stores, told
branch personnel in Clovis, Calif., to fill out
an online survey after too few customers did,
she said. In the survey, she said she received
a payday loan for ‘‘car bills.’’ She had bor-
rowed $50 to patch a tire.
On July 8, 2016, a 217–word comment with
Ms. Mireles’s name and email was sent to the
CFPB, reading, in part: ‘‘I had no idea the
bill would be as expensive as it was after I
took my car to the shop. To help me pay for
everything, I went to get a cash loan.’’ Un-
true, she said. Her family owns an auto shop
where she doesn’t pay.
Bridgette Roman, spokeswoman for Cali-
fornia Check Cashing, denied Ms. Mireles’
account, saying customers were offered a
computer that walked them through cre-
ation of ‘‘a customized comment’’ on the
rule and were told it would be submitted to
the CFPB. ‘‘The former employee was mis-
taken or confused.’’
Ms. Mireles’s comment showed it origi-
nated from IssueHound and
TelltheCFPB.com, a site used by a payday-
lending trade group.
The trade group, Community Financial
Services Association of America, used
IssueHound and TelltheCFPB.com to send
comments on the payday-lending rule, said
Dennis Shaul, the group’s CEO. Told of the
Journal findings, he said: ‘‘We cannot begin
to speculate as to why that is.’’ He said he
had asked member lenders not to use coer-
cion or gimmicks in the campaign and that
they generated tens of thousands of hand-
written notes. ‘‘I’m very disappointed to
hear this, and it is not at all the outcome we
expected.’’
IssueHound’s Mr. Smith said: ‘‘There is lit-
tle more I can say about the letters as we
simply license the platform.’’
The late Ms. Duthie’s phony comment was
among copy-and-paste-style comments that
dominate the FCC docket.
One under Ms. Duthie’s name was sub-
mitted with the email address of her ex-hus-
band, Peter Duthie. It began: ‘‘FCC: Hi, I’d
like to comment on Internet Freedom.’’ That
sentence, including two spaces after the
colon, opened 974 comments.
Mr. Duthie said he didn’t submit it. He did
file, he said, a comment opposing the Trump-
administration plans.
Mr. NELSON. This article points out
that net neutrality is widely popular.
Eighty-three percent of the American
public supports net neutrality. The
other 17 percent—some of them say
they don’t. I don’t know how they
don’t. But it is a pretty overwhelming
majority—83 percent. But even among
Republicans in the surveys that have
been done, 76 percent of self-identified
Republicans say they support net neu-
trality.
Here is the flaw in the process the
FCC used. Twenty-four million com-
ments came in from supposedly ‘‘Amer-
icans’’ that were filed either for or
against the rulemaking. There is a
problem in this record that was built
because 2 million of those comments
featured stolen identities. It was not a
real person; it was somebody else’s
identity. Some of those identities were
people who have long since died. Half a
million comments were from Russian
addresses. Fifty thousand consumer
complaints were inexplicably missing
from the record.
Let’s take the part about Russian ad-
dresses. Is this beginning to tell us
something that we know—that there
was Russian interference in the last
election? We also know from our intel-
ligence community that there was Rus-
sian entrance into the voting records of
some 20 States. Now we are seeing the
Russian influence enter into the mak-
ing of law—in this case, the rule-
making—trying to influence com-
ments, whether they were comments
for the rulemaking or against the rule-
making. It is another indication that
Russia indeed is intending on dis-
torting and influencing the daily oper-
ations at the microscopic level—not at
the level of an election of a President
but at the microscopic level of influ-
encing the development of rules to
carry out laws—in this case, a rule that
the American people feel quite strong-
ly about. Eighty-three percent are in
favor of net neutrality—the opposite of
what the Republican majority on the
FCC has enacted.
Now we have at least 19 State attor-
neys general who have raised concerns.
They even wrote to the Federal Com-
munications Commission asking that
the agency hold off on its vote to elimi-
nate the net neutrality rules, which
the Republican Chairman and the FCC
majority promptly ignored. The FCC is
refusing to even work with law enforce-
ment to get to the bottom of this issue.
Shouldn’t the fact that there are
Russian bots and people, directed by
the Kremlin, trying to influence our
government processes—shouldn’t that
be something we ought to be working
on with law enforcement?
Well, I am going to continue to raise
this issue over and over, whether it is
this agency’s—the FCC’s—rulemaking
or other agencies’ rulemaking, which is
chronicled in this Wall Street Journal
article that has been printed in the
RECORD. This is deadly serious business
because this is our democracy.
We have to have the ability to oper-
ate in good faith that information that
we are getting is accurate information.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.004 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S8 January 3, 2018
When we see this kind of evidence, we
know there is a flaw in the system, and
that flaw might actually have its
source in a person named Vladimir
Putin.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
OFFSHORE DRILLING REGULATION
Mr. NELSON. Mr. President, on De-
cember 28, just 3 days after Christmas,
the Department of the Interior and this
administration sent the oil industry a
belated Christmas present. They pub-
lished a proposal to release offshore
drilling companies from sensible rules
designed to prevent a tragedy like the
one we experienced back in 2010, the
Deepwater Horizon oilspill, when 11
people lost their lives and almost 5
million barrels of oil were spilled as a
result of a defective device called a
blowout preventer. There were 5 mil-
lion barrels of oil sloshing around in
the Gulf of Mexico, much of which is
still out there down at depths of 5,000
feet, where the actual well pipe came
out a mile underneath the surface of
the Gulf of Mexico.
Of course, we know the economic
damage that did all up and down the
Gulf of Mexico. The explosion was some
50 or 60 miles off of Louisiana, but the
winds shifted and started blowing the
oil to the east. It got as far east as
Pensacola Beach, and those sugary
white sands were covered up with black
oil. The Associated Press and UPI pho-
tographs went around the world. The
winds continued, and it went as far as
the white sands of Destin. Tar balls
floated as far east as the white sand
beaches of Panama City Beach, and
then the winds shifted and brought it
back the other way. People all over the
world, seeing the photographs, thought
oil was on all the beaches of the gulf
coast of Florida, and they did not
come. The tourists did not come.
Now, I haven’t even spoken about the
economic and environmental degrada-
tion that occurred throughout the en-
tire gulf and the fishing industries. Of
course, the administration has pro-
posed to now do drilling off the east
coast of the United States, including
off the coast of the State of the Pre-
siding Officer. A number of us have
come together who don’t think that
matches with our tourism industry. It
certainly doesn’t match with regard to
our fishing industries, but it also does
not match with the U.S. Department of
Defense’s training and testing mission.
If we look at the gulf coast off of
Florida, the only place it is off limits
in law is the largest testing and train-
ing area for the U.S. military in the
world, but if you go up and down the
Atlantic coast of the Eastern Seaboard,
you will see training range after train-
ing range, and you get as far south as
the Central East Coast of Florida and,
lo and behold, is that area of protec-
tion for not only the U.S. Department
of Defense but for NASA and other
agencies. That is where we are rock-
eting our satellites into orbit, of which
the first stages have to have a place to
land. That is where, when we had the
space shuttle—and soon we will be
rocketing American astronauts to the
International Space Station on Amer-
ican rockets. Many of the first stages
will fall into the Atlantic Ocean below,
just like the solid rocket boosters did
on the space shuttle when it launched.
So there are reasons not to have
drilling platforms out there, but let’s
come back to the Deepwater Horizon
oilspill. What happened was deep below
the seabed, miles farther into the
Earth’s crust, pressure had built up and
an explosion had occurred. The safety
mechanism is right where the pipe
comes out of the seabed and goes up 5
miles to the surface to deliver oil.
The safety mechanism is a blowout
preventer, which is like a huge set of
pincers which comes through and cuts
off the pipe. If that blowout preventer
preventing the blowout of the well is
defective—as it was in the BP oilspill,
where 5 million barrels of oil spewed
out 5 miles below the surface of the
gulf into the waters of the Gulf of Mex-
ico and rendered the havoc and eco-
nomic damage it did.
In the turmoil and trauma that en-
sued, there was obviously a need in the
Department of the Interior, in the Bu-
reau of Safety, called BSEE, to change
the rules to give additional safety
mechanisms to make sure this
wouldn’t happen again. Lo and behold,
there is now a change, and we are
starting to see the first attempts at
weakening those rules.
Sometimes the issue of regulatory re-
form feels abstract or arbitrary. This is
technical stuff, and it is dry, but the
safety standards created after the
Deepwater Horizon oilspill are not dull
and boring. They are life or death.
They were written specifically to make
sure families, like those 11 who lost
their loved ones, wouldn’t have to be
notified again that there was a pre-
ventable death.
What are these new rules about?
They are coming in on the blowout pre-
venter, which is the system to control
the flow of oil or to seal an oil well. A
blowout preventer is what stands be-
tween the enormous pressure that
builds up in the oil well pipe and the
ocean around it. Its purpose is exactly
what the name sounds like. It is to pre-
vent the oil from blowing out into the
sea uncontrollably.
It took several months to finally get
that well capped 5,000 feet below the
surface of the water. These are massive
pieces of equipment. The blowout pre-
venter for Deepwater Horizon stood 57
feet tall and weighed over 400 tons.
That is how big that thing is. Then
there is a piece of the blowout pre-
venter system called a shear ram—a
device with two blades that seals off a
well in an emergency, and that is what
failed to fully close in the BP oilspill.
What the Interior Department in this
administration is trying to do is undo
the updated standards for shear rams
and blowout preventers, and it is try-
ing to get rid of a required third party
to certify the safety mechanisms.
Obviously, after what we suffered, it
is common sense to have those safety
mechanisms, and it means that for a
third party to ensure the safety mecha-
nisms by certifying that they are in
place—it means that somebody other
than the oil company needs to make
sure their safety equipment is in place
and functioning properly.
These rules require better training
for workers, real-time monitoring of
deepwater drilling operations, timely
reporting of major problems with the
equipment, and consistent testing and
inspections to increase safety. These
rules were also the product of a thor-
ough and transparent discussion by sci-
entists, engineers, industry representa-
tives, agency officials, and the public.
It took 6 years after the spill for the
well control rule to be finalized. The
Trump Interior Department wants to
pull a bait and switch, reversing the
safety measures and giving the public a
mere 30 days to review a highly tech-
nical rule. It took 6 years to develop
this rule ensuring the safety devices,
and now they have a rule to undo it,
and they are going to give 30 days for
comments. That is nothing more than
a free pass to the oil and gas industry
at the expense of everyone else, includ-
ing folks who work on those rigs, who
are going to have to suffer if there is
another blowout. There are a lot of
other things—communities, marine
life, your State’s economy, my State’s
economy, the Gulf States’ economies.
It is totally misguided and reckless.
Over the past year, President Trump
has issued Executive orders cut
straight from Big Oil’s playbook. He
has directed agencies to gut rules de-
signed to protect the environment and
the safety of workers if the rules inter-
fered with an oil company’s bottom
line. That is what this one does. It
saves them some $900 million. He di-
rected Secretary Zinke to reconsider
the well control rule, which was final-
ized in 2016. That rule stemmed di-
rectly from what we had learned in the
investigation of the 2010 BP spill.
By the way, the agency that issued
this proposed rollback is called the Bu-
reau of Safety and Environmental En-
forcement. It is separate now from the
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management—
the agency that schedules lease sales in
the Outer Continental Shelf.
Before the 2010 spill, the folks who
worked with the oil industry to auc-
tion acreage in the gulf were the same
people who were in charge of inspecting
the rigs later for compliance with the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.008 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S9
January 3, 2018
safety standards. Talk about a cozy re-
lationship. That is why one of the first
recommendations from the National
Commission on the BP spill was to
split those responsibilities into two dif-
ferent agencies—one that schedules
lease sales and the other that does the
safety. That was a very important step,
both to clarify the mission of each
agency and to restore public trust in
offshore regulators. Yet over the sum-
mer, there were reports that the
Trump administration wanted to re-
combine these two agencies. Only one
stakeholder group would benefit from
that, and you can bet what it is. It is
not the consumers. It is not the tour-
ists. It is not the scientists. It is not
the environmentalists. It is the oil in-
dustry.
Now the Trump administration
wants to smack down more rec-
ommendations from that investigation.
From marine biologists to chambers of
commerce, I can tell you, the people in
Florida understand how important it is
to keep drilling off the coast and,
where there is drilling, to make sure
the safety mechanisms that were cor-
rected after the BP spill stay in place.
But that is not what is happening right
here in Washington.
When the Interior Department re-
leased this revised rule last week, my
colleague, a Republican Congressman
from Sarasota, FL, said ‘‘It would be a
huge mistake to weaken these safety
regulations’’ and that if the Interior
Department doesn’t rescind the pro-
posal, Congress should intervene and
codify the rules permanently.
He is right, and I agree with Con-
gressman BUCHANAN, my colleague in
the Florida delegation who has an ‘‘R’’
behind his name. That is why I plan to
subject this misguided rule to the Con-
gressional Review Act.
The Congressional Review Act was
once an option of last resort. It was
meant to ensure that Congress could
override the administration if a rule
were widely opposed. In most cases, the
Congressional Review Act wasn’t nec-
essary because if Congress opposed a
rule strongly enough, there was enough
consensus to pass a law to fix it.
At the beginning of this Congress,
the CRA was a favorite tool of the Re-
publicans who wanted to take a sledge-
hammer to the Obama administration’s
legacy through the rules that they had
enacted. In 2017, the Senate took 17
votes on CRA resolutions of dis-
approval on everything from bear hunt-
ing in the National Wildlife Refuge of
Alaska to drug testing of unemploy-
ment benefit recipients.
I think this dangerous proposal from
the Interior Department deserves the
same level of attention. This proposal
is open to public comment until Janu-
ary 29. You are not going to get 6 years
this time. You will get only 30 days,
and it ends January 29. I hope the pub-
lic understands that and starts reg-
istering some complaints.
I hope, during that time, every Flo-
ridian remembers what happened to us
when the beaches of Pensacola were
blackened with tar and oil and we lost
a whole season of our guests—tourists
who come to this extraordinary State
of natural environment, the beautiful
Florida beaches. I hope that every Flo-
ridian will remember—whether you
were a hotelier, a restauranteur,
whether you had the dry cleaners,
whether you had the taxi services—
when you got hit in your pocketbook; I
hope every American who rightly has
an interest in protecting our beaches,
our oceans, our marine life, decides to
write in and complain to Secretary
Zinke exactly what he is putting at
risk with this proposal.
The Interior Department claims the
revised proposal will lessen ‘‘unneces-
sary regulatory burdens’’—those are
their words—on the oil and gas indus-
try, saving these businesses money. It
is estimated it will save $900-some mil-
lion for the oil industry. What about
all the other businesses that will be
hurt by a spill if that blowout pre-
venter doesn’t cut that pipe in two and
seal off the well, which was the lesson
learned from the BP Deepwater Hori-
zon spill?
Do we want to go back and weaken
these rules? The BP spill devastated
my State’s economy, and 11 people lost
their lives. Louisiana’s bayous were in-
undated with gooey oil.
I talked to two professors, research-
ers at Louisiana State University,
LSU. They compared the critters that
had developed in the bayous where the
oil went into the bayous—the same
kind of critter, a little fish that is
about that big. Their progeny were
stunning; they were mentally de-
formed. They could not act like normal
killifish. It is a little fish about that
big. They compared it to the bays and
the bayous where those killifish
hatched and grew in waters without oil
sloshing around in those waters. For 87
days, 5 million barrels of oil gushed.
I bet folks don’t even realize there is
a spill that is happening right now. As
a matter of fact, it has been leaking for
13 years. In 2004, Hurricane Ivan top-
pled an offshore drilling platform
owned by Taylor Energy. Because of
the way the platform slid, several of
the wells were buried and have yet to
be plugged.
We all know it is not a question of if
there will be another spill but when—
and, oh, by the way, the one that has
been going on since 2004. How cata-
strophic will the next one be? Is it
going to be off of the Carolinas? Is it
going to be off of Virginia, with all of
our military fleet in Norfolk? Is it
going to be off of Jacksonville and
Mayport, as well as the subbase for our
Trident submarines? Is it going to be
off of Canaveral, where our commercial
government rockets are launched into
space, dropping first stages, and where
the testing for the Trident submarine
that is based in Georgia is done, with
the telemetry on the Air Force Eastern
Test Range? That is why more than
41,000 businesses on the Atlantic coast
have expressed opposition to drilling in
the Atlantic Ocean, and that is why
NASA doesn’t want drilling anywhere
near the Kennedy Space Center. That
is why the Department of Defense has
said, time and again, that we should
protect and extend the moratorium on
drilling in the eastern gulf.
In 2006, bipartisan Senator Mel Mar-
tinez, a Republican from Florida, and I
passed a moratorium for the eastern
Gulf of Mexico, off of Florida, because
of the military as well as all of the en-
vironmental things I have talked
about.
Just at the end of last year, the Air
Force came to us. It wants to put $60
million of new improvements for ex-
quisite telemetry, as we are testing
some of our most sophisticated weap-
ons systems in the gulf testing range,
which is the Gulf of Mexico, off of Flor-
ida, but they don’t want to make that
investment of $60 million to upgrade
all of the telemetry unless they have
the assurance it is going to be off lim-
its to oil drilling, not just until 2022,
which is in the law, but extended an-
other 5 years until 2027.
We cannot get it done. This Senator
tried to get it into the Defense bill—an
appropriate place. The Acting Presi-
dent pro tempore serves on that distin-
guished committee, the Armed Serv-
ices Committee, which is led by JOHN
MCCAIN. We couldn’t get it done be-
cause of oil interests not wanting to
give the Air Force the security that its
$60 million investment on advanced te-
lemetry would be protected for not 5
years from now but 10 years from now.
The only reason the administration
wants to take the time to write a new
one is, the oil industry wants it to open
up a whole lot more acreage to drilling
and not just in the gulf; it wants the
entire Outer Continental Shelf of the
United States—on the west coast and
from New Jersey south, as one goes
down the States, including the ones I
have already mentioned in the South-
eastern United States—Virginia, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia,
Florida.
I don’t think we should expose even 1
acre of Federal waters to drilling until
we have strong safety standards in
place to protect against another spill,
to protect the workers from losing
their lives ever again, to protect the
environment, to protect the coastal
economies that are so dependent on the
beautiful beaches, and to protect the
national security interests of our test-
ing and training ranges.
It took 6 years to finalize these rules,
and now, in a matter of 30 days, com-
ments are out there to undo these
rules. That shouldn’t happen. Will
other voices in the Senate speak up? It
is happening right underneath our
noses.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.010 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S10 January 3, 2018
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
TAX REFORM BILL AND WORK
BEFORE THE SENATE
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, many
recall that Christmas came a little
early this year—or, I should say, last
month—as we delivered comprehensive
tax reform to the American people—a
historic overhaul of our Nation’s Tax
Code and the first since 1986, more than
three decades. Since that time, the
President has now signed the bill into
law, and we have already begun to see
signs of how tax reform is transforming
the economic landscape across the
country and making life better for
American citizens.
The New York Times reports that job
creators are eager for the tax cuts to
take effect and that a wave of opti-
mism is surging among them. That is
their quote, the New York Times. They
report that businesses are ready to cre-
ate jobs and raise wages. They will in-
vest in new plants and equipment that
will bolster economic growth, grow the
economy, and help to create more jobs
and improve take-home pay.
It is not just the New York Times
that sees optimism spreading. There
are plenty of real-world examples that
illustrate that as well. One healthcare
and home products company an-
nounced that in response to the tax
bill, it would award all employees a
$100 bonus for each year they have
worked for the company. So if an em-
ployee has been at the company for 8
years, the average tenure, that would
be an extra $800 in his or her pocket to
fix their car, repair a water heater, or
replace carpets in their living room.
Two telecom giants recently an-
nounced even larger bonuses for hun-
dreds of thousands of their employees,
raises of $1,000 each. Now, it may be
that these companies are getting ahead
of the game, because in a tight labor
market, where unemployment rates are
relatively low and where economic ac-
tivity goes up, we know there is going
to be more and more competition for
good workers, and that means that em-
ployers are going to be required to pay
more for those workers in that com-
petition for workforce and labor. So it
may be that these companies are a lit-
tle bit ahead of the game, but I expect
to see, whether it is done as these com-
panies have done it or not, in a low un-
employment rate scenario where there
is more competition for workers be-
cause more economic activity is occur-
ring, that more jobs are being created
and that we are going to see all work-
ers’ take-home pay increase as a result.
These companies have also said that
they plan to increase capital spending
in response to the tax reform we passed
last month. Some banks have said they
will raise their minimum wage to $15
an hour and donate as much as $400
million to community and nonprofit
organizations.
One major airline in my home State
of Texas announced that it will give all
full-time and part-time employees a
$1,000 cash bonus and make $5 million
in additional charitable donations.
They have also said—because they be-
lieve there is going to be an increased
number of people flying—that they are
going to buy more jets, more planes to
accommodate that increase in air trav-
el. This is all good stuff when we are
looking at getting the economy grow-
ing again and creating more jobs and
better wages.
Finally, German economists recently
released a study finding that the U.S.
corporate tax rate will now sharply im-
prove incentives for foreigners to in-
vest in America—exactly what we
wanted to happen. Of course, this will
come at the expense of high-tax coun-
tries in Europe. So just think of it as
their loss is our gain, but that is ex-
actly why we felt it was necessary on a
bipartisan basis to reduce what was ef-
fectively the highest business tax rate
in the world, at 35 percent. That is why
people like Barack Obama in 2011
called for us on a bipartisan basis to re-
duce that rate and to make it more
competitive, and the Democratic lead-
er, Senator SCHUMER, and others, and
Republicans on our side of the aisle all
agreed that this was the right policy.
Well, now we are beginning to see that
policy pay off as a result of the bill we
passed in December, which was signed
into law on December 22.
I would say that all these examples
are pretty telltale signs that the opti-
mism reported by the New York Times
isn’t fake news. It is real. Tax reform is
changing the economic landscape, pay-
checks are growing, and job creators
are responding in all sorts of positive
ways. I think that is a terrific way for
us to begin 2018.
Now, for all of us who worry about
what is going to happen to our indi-
vidual paycheck, the good news is that
the IRS is now working hard to update
its withholding guidance documents
and, once it does, Texans and Ameri-
cans, in general, will begin seeing larg-
er paychecks, more take-home pay
hopefully as early as February.
Well, that is the good news. That is
what we were able to accomplish at the
end of last year that will hopefully
continue to pay dividends in terms of
economic growth and take-home pay
and more jobs, but we still have a lot of
work to do.
Over the next few weeks, we have a
very, very full plate. First and fore-
most is funding the Federal Govern-
ment and avoiding a shutdown come
January 19, when our stopgap con-
tinuing resolution expires. It is crucial
that both sides come together to en-
sure that critical government func-
tions are not held hostage to other de-
mands. High on my list is to make sure
that we continue to fund our national
security and the Department of De-
fense and continue to pay our
warfighters and make sure that they
receive the training and equipment
they need in order to keep our Nation
safe. That is just one of the items, but
it is my highest priority.
The second is close to it, and that is
making sure we provide natural dis-
aster relief. This last year, we saw
what seemed to be an unprecedented
array of natural disasters—from
wildfires out West to historic rain
events like Hurricane Harvey in Texas
and Louisiana, and hurricanes in Flor-
ida, the Virgin Islands and, of course,
Puerto Rico. I commend the House for
passing the $81 billion disaster relief
package last month, but with so many
record-setting disasters this last year—
first and foremost in my mind is Hurri-
cane Harvey in Texas—we, in the Sen-
ate, need to take a little extra time to
make sure that all of the varied com-
peting interests are accommodated. In
the coming weeks, I am going to con-
tinue to work with my colleagues to
ensure that Texans whose homes,
schools, roads, and workplaces were af-
fected by the storm receive the help
they deserve and so desperately need.
We are not asking to be treated any
better than anybody else, but we are
not going to accept being treated
worse.
We look forward to working together
with our fellow Americans in Puerto
Rico, in Florida, out West, and, of
course, in Texas and Louisiana to
make sure that we do our job and treat
everybody exactly the same. The House
bill is a useful starting point, but it is
my hope that we can improve upon it
and make sure Texas can fully recover
and rebuild.
Third on my list of to-dos is an im-
portant national security program that
most people may not have heard much
about, which allows the Federal Gov-
ernment to obtain communications of
foreign intelligence targets, which is
set to expire on January 19. One of the
technical advantages that the United
States has over any other country in
the world is our ability to listen to for-
eign actors and gather intelligence
that will forearm our first responders
and our national security apparatus, as
well as others, to keep our Nation safe.
This particular law, which has been
called the crown jewel of our national
security by the Director of the FBI, is
known as section 702 of the Foreign In-
telligence Surveillance Act Amend-
ments Act, an essential safeguard
against terrorism and a valuable tool
for gathering foreign intelligence, as I
have said. We need to work quickly to
ensure that it is reauthorized for a long
term.
The fourth item on our to-do list is
addressing the Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals Program, or DACA.
You will recall that back a few years
ago now, President Obama decided to
try to unilaterally issue an order pro-
viding work permits and legal status to
roughly 800,000 children, now adults,
who came with their parents illegally
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.012 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S11
January 3, 2018
to the United States. While these are
certainly the most sympathetic group
of people whom we need to address—
and I think we can, and we will in a
compassionate and honest sort of
way—I am grateful to President Trump
for returning the fate of this program
where it belongs—in the hands of Con-
gress. That is after President Obama’s
DACA provisions failed in Federal
court.
I am confident that both sides can
come to an agreement regarding the
legal status of these roughly 800,000 in-
dividuals who were brought to the
country illegally while they were still
quite young. That includes 124,000
DACA recipients in my State of Texas
alone.
Many of these individuals make valu-
able contributions and should not be
penalized for decisions made by their
parents, the legal ramifications of
which they could not at such a young
age fully understand or consent to. But
any such agreement must include cor-
responding measures regarding an en-
forcement of our immigration laws.
I think that one of the biggest trage-
dies in recent years in our country is
that the American people have simply
lost confidence in their government
when it comes to securing the border
and enforcing our immigration laws. I
believe this provides an opportunity,
not only for us to provide compas-
sionate relief to the DACA recipients I
mentioned a moment ago but to re-
store an enforcement of our immigra-
tion laws, including border security,
the additional personnel, and the tech-
nology required in order for us to know
who is coming into our country and
why they are here and to make sure
that they only do so by legal channels.
My hope is that our Democratic col-
leagues will abandon their threats to
shut down the government and will en-
gage with us in good faith, because we
stand ready to talk to them and nego-
tiate in good faith as well.
Finally, on my personal to-do list is
my goal to pass the bill we call the Fix
NICS Act as soon as possible. This is to
fix the National Instant Criminal
Background Check System that is
checked by federally licensed firearms
dealers when somebody goes into a
store to buy a firearm—whether it is a
shotgun to hunt, a pistol to defend
themselves, a rifle for hunting, or for
home defense. I think it is really im-
portant in the wake of Sutherland
Springs for us to get this bill passed.
This is the bill I filed after those ter-
rible shootings in Sutherland Springs,
which resulted in the loss of 26 inno-
cent lives, with about that same num-
ber injured as well. This tragedy was
entirely preventable because the indi-
vidual who committed that heinous act
on that day was legally disqualified
from purchasing a firearm by the fact
that he was a convicted felon, he had
been convicted of domestic violence,
and he had been committed to a mental
health institution. But none of that in-
formation was uploaded by the Air
Force into the National Instant Crimi-
nal Background Check System.
What did he do when he went in to
buy firearms? He simply lied, and he
said he had no disqualifying event in
his life like those I mentioned earlier—
convicted felon, mental health institu-
tionalization, and a domestic violence
conviction. He simply lied about it.
The background check system failed us
and the people who were victims of
that terrible day in Sutherland
Springs. We need to get that fixed.
This is one of those rare times when
folks who are ardent believers in the
Second Amendment, as am I, and those
who are perhaps less inclined to be en-
thusiastic about the Second Amend-
ment rights of law-abiding citizens can
come together and say: Let’s at least
fix the current law. Let’s make sure
that if somebody is disqualified from
buying a firearm, this National Instant
Criminal Background Check System
actually works.
I am delighted to say that Senator
MURPHY from Connecticut, Senator
FEINSTEIN from California, and Senator
SCHUMER, the Democratic leader from
New York, have joined me and Major-
ity Leader MCCONNELL and so many
others on our side of the aisle to say
that this is something we can and we
should do. I simply cannot face the
prospect of looking into the eyes of
somebody who has lost a loved one as
the result of a preventable mass shoot-
ing incident like we saw in Sutherland
Springs. We have the ability here to
pass legislation that will save lives and
to prevent people who are legally dis-
qualified from purchasing firearms
from doing so.
All of these on this list are just a few
of the challenges we face as a new year
begins. I think these are things we can
address on a bipartisan basis. I know
we had some tough fights last year on
healthcare and tax reform, and our
Democratic colleagues seemed dis-
inclined to help at all to work with us
to pass those pieces of legislation. I am
hoping that with this new year and,
hopefully, the optimism that goes
along with it, our colleagues will work
with us in goodwill for all and a re-
newed determination to do what is
right, not only for the folks we have
the honor of representing but for our
entire country.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
TOOMEY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
DACA
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, on Sep-
tember 5 of last year, Attorney General
Sessions announced the repeal of the
Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals
Program, which has been called DACA.
The same day, President Trump called
on Congress to come up with a solution
to ‘‘legalize DACA.’’
The history of this issue I have ex-
plained many times on the floor, and I
will say it briefly. Seventeen years ago,
I introduced a bill called the DREAM
Act, which said that if you were
brought to the country as an infant, a
toddler, a child, and you were raised in
America and went to school here, had
no problems of any serious nature with
the law, that you would be given a
chance to become a citizen of the
United States.
Many of these children, of course,
didn’t have a voice in the decision of
their families to come to this country,
and this is the only country they know.
They have gone to our schools. They
have graduated from our schools. They
stood up in the classrooms of those
schools each and every day and pledged
allegiance to that flag. It was their flag
and their country. Many of them didn’t
learn until they were in high school,
that technically, in the eyes of the law,
this wasn’t true; they were undocu-
mented. They were illegal in the eyes
of the law.
So what I tried to do with the
DREAM Act was to give these young
people a chance—a chance to become
part of America’s future and to be-
come, ultimately, earning their way to
legalization and earning their way to
citizenship. That was the DREAM Act.
We have passed it at various times in
the Senate. We passed it in the House
over the years. We have never done it
at the same time, same year.
So I called on President Obama and
asked him if he would issue an Execu-
tive order and do something to help
these young people. He created DACA.
DACA said to the young people: Come
forward, pay your filing fee, go through
a criminal background check, and we
will let you stay in America for 2 years
at a time, renewable, and we will let
you work in this country. Well, more
than 780,000 young people did that.
They signed up, paid their fee, went
through the background check, and re-
ceived that protection. Then came
President Trump who said: That is the
end of the program. We are not going
to protect these young people any
longer.
Well, whatever happened to those
780,000 DACA-protected young people?
Many of them are in school, they are in
college, law school, medical school.
Some of them joined our military.
That is it. They went and took the
oath and said: I will serve this country.
I will bear allegiance to this country. I
will give my life for this country in the
U.S. military. Nine hundred of them
are in the military today.
DACA is going to be eliminated as of
March 5 of this year by President
Trump, which means they will be asked
to leave the U.S. military, to stop this
volunteer service to our Nation. An-
other 20,000 are teachers all across this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.013 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S12 January 3, 2018
country. High schools, grade schools,
you name it, they are teaching, trying
to find a way to help other young peo-
ple do better with their lives. They lose
their jobs when DACA expires and their
DACA protection expires.
Thousands and thousands of them are
doing important work, including as en-
gineers, as police officers in training,
as medics. These are people who are
making this a better country, and all
they have asked for is just a chance to
be here and to be part of our future,
but President Trump said: It is over.
Now, Congress, do something about it.
Do you know what we have done
since September 5, when the President
issued that challenge? Take a look at
this empty floor. That is what we have
done—nothing. Nothing. Despite the
President’s challenge, despite the lives
of all these young people hanging in
the balance, we have done nothing.
That is why I come to the floor today.
This has to come to an end. We have to
do the right and just thing for these
young people. We have to make those
who are eligible for the Dream Act,
those who are eligible to be part of our
future—we have to give them a chance,
and that is why I come and ask for help
today.
I can tell you we are losing about
1,000 of these young Dreamers each
week. Their protection under DACA ex-
pires. What does it mean? It means
that at any moment of any day, a
knock on the door could mean they
would be deported and many times
other members of their family with
them. Their lives in the United States
would come to an end, and many of
them would be deported to countries
they have never ever known. They
might have been there as infants. Per-
haps it was Mexico; maybe it was
Korea. They knew it, not personally,
but only through family stories, and
they would be sent to these countries,
many times with no family, no connec-
tions, sometimes with no knowledge of
the language that is spoken there.
They believe they are Americans. I
think they should have a chance to be-
come Americans in the full sense of the
law.
(Mr. GARDNER assumed the Chair.)
I have come to the floor over the
years after introducing the DREAM
Act and urged my colleagues to do
something. I am not alone. The coali-
tion that has come together behind
this issue is interesting. Over 75 per-
cent of the American people think Con-
gress—both Democrats and Repub-
licans—should come together and pass
the Dream Act. Over 75 percent of
Americans believe that, and 60 percent
of the people who voted for President
Trump believe that.
We have Governors from both polit-
ical parties urging us to do something,
urgently, to help. Eleven of them,
Democrats and Republicans, sent a let-
ter to Congress, calling on us to pass
the DACA legislation. Democratic Gov-
ernors from Minnesota, Montana,
Pennsylvania, and North Carolina; Re-
publican Governors from Nevada, Mas-
sachusetts, Vermont, Utah; and Alas-
ka’s Independent Governor all asked us
to do something about it.
Poll after poll shows bipartisan sup-
port for the Dreamers. Even FOX News
found that 79 percent of Americans
support a path to citizenship for
Dreamers. As I mentioned earlier, this
support includes 63 percent of those
voted for President Trump.
I have told this story many times on
the floor, but it doesn’t have the im-
pact of telling the real-life story of
those who are affected by this con-
versation and would be impacted by
this law.
This is Zarna Patel. She is the 106th
Dreamer whose story I have told on the
Senate floor. When she was 3 years old,
her family came to the United States
from India. She grew up in North Caro-
lina and in Coral Springs, FL. She was
a brilliant student. In high school, she
received the AP Scholar with Distinc-
tion Award from the College Board and
the Math Scholars Award from her
school’s math department. She was
president of her high school’s environ-
mental club. She started a recycling
program at her school and led the
school beautification project, beach
cleanups, and an environmental science
competition every year.
She was a member of the National
Honor Society, the treasurer of the
Science National Honor Society, a
member of the Spanish National Honor
Society, and a member of the Rho
Kappa History National Honor Society.
She was some student.
She still found time to volunteer as a
tutor for disadvantaged kids and as a
youth leader for the South Florida
Hindu Temple.
She was brought to this country as a
baby. She was the only undocumented
person in her family. She, of course,
didn’t know it when she was brought
here at age 3. But she didn’t let her im-
migration status stop her at all.
She began college in Florida. Keep in
mind, if you are one of these undocu-
mented Dreamers, you don’t qualify for
any Federal assistance to go to school.
If you want to go to college, you get a
job and save the money to pay the tui-
tion. She did it.
In Florida, she was on the dean’s list.
She graduated cum laude from the uni-
versity’s honors program, with a bach-
elor of science in nutrition and a minor
in anthropology.
In college, she volunteered as a stu-
dent leader for a community health
clinic, helping uninsured and under-
served patients. She was a leader of the
Friends for Life pediatric cancer stu-
dent group, and she volunteered at the
pediatric ICU of Shands Hospital,
spending time with patients there
every single week.
She volunteered with a sports pro-
gram for children with physical and
mental disabilities and was a volunteer
camp counselor for a week in summer
camp for kids with diabetes. She was a
summer volunteer for a community-
based effort to reduce healthcare dis-
parities in her county.
Zarna says that she threw herself
into these activities to prepare herself
for her life’s dream. Her life’s dream
was to go to medical school. She knew,
though, that she didn’t have a chance.
She was undocumented. She didn’t
have a country. She grew up here. She
did all these things in America, but le-
gally, she wasn’t recognized in Amer-
ica. Her immigration status was going
to kill her dream. Despite being
brought here as a baby, she did the
very best with her life that she could
possibly do.
Then, in 2012, President Barack
Obama established the DACA Program.
She heard about it and realized, mir-
acle of miracles, she had a chance. She
was now able to step out of the shad-
ows, submit her name for a criminal
background check, pay a $500 filing fee,
wait in line, and hope that she would
be allowed to stay in America, pro-
tected by DACA, and it worked.
Something else happened at the same
time. A university in my home State of
Illinois, which I am very proud of—
Loyola University—decided to do some-
thing that no other university in
America would do. They decided to
open up the competition for medical
school to DACA-protected young peo-
ple across America. They didn’t give
them special slots or quotas. No, they
threw them into the pool. If you are
good enough, you can compete with the
best students in America. Guess what.
These DACA students turned out to be
some of the best students in America.
They have 32 students at Loyola Uni-
versity Chicago Stritch School of Med-
icine studying to be doctors today
under the DACA Program, which was
eliminated by President Trump.
You say to yourself: It is lucky they
got in under the wire. There is a prob-
lem. The problem is that on March 5,
the DACA Program is eliminated by
President Trump. By March 5, students
like Zarna will lose their protection
under the law, and as they lose their
protection under the law, they are sub-
ject to deportation, which means a
knock on the door and you can be gone.
They will not be allowed to legally
work in America. What difference does
it make if a medical student can’t le-
gally work? Well, I have come to learn
it makes a big difference. You see, to
be a successful medical student and be-
come a doctor, you need a residency. A
residency is a job in a hospital. It is a
tough job. It isn’t a 9-to-5 job during
the course of the week. It is many
hours of hard work. You don’t get paid
a lot of money, but you learn what it
means to be a doctor and to treat peo-
ple as they come into the hospital. So
if you want to go to medical school and
you want to graduate with a residency
in a specialty, you need to be allowed
to legally work in America.
Because of President Trump’s deci-
sion to eliminate DACA, Zarna Patel
and dozens just like her cannot seek a
residency out of medical school. That
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.014 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S13
January 3, 2018
is the end of medical school. Despite
all the success in their academic lives,
they are stopped from going forward.
Zarna is a second-year student. If she
is given a chance, she wants to be a
doctor. In my State, we help pay for
her education.
Here is the deal though. Zarna Patel,
if you want to go to medical school and
you don’t have the money, my State of
Illinois will loan you the money to go
to medical school on one condition.
You have to give us one year of service
as a doctor, once you become a cer-
tified doctor in our State of Illinois, for
the money we loaned to you. You can
serve in the city of Chicago or you
might serve in a rural community
downstate.
She signed up for it. She said: I will
do it. I will give a year of my life for
each year of medical school if you will
give me a chance to be a doctor.
Does this young woman sound like
the kind of person we need in this
country in the future? Does she sound
like the kind of person who would be
just the kind of doctor you would like
to have? Well, sign me up. I am one of
those who believes in her. I know her.
I met her.
There are 31 other students at
Loyola’s medical school just like her.
Their future is hanging on what hap-
pens in this empty Senate Chamber—
whether in the next 2 weeks, the Sen-
ators from both sides of the aisle, Re-
publican and Democrat, will come to-
gether and solve this problem.
I want to thank the Presiding Officer
for being a positive part of this con-
versation—and he has been. It means
an awful lot to me, and it means a lot
to her and a lot of people who are
counting on us to do our jobs as Sen-
ators.
We haven’t worked out a perfect so-
lution to this yet. We need to give and
take, compromise, agree to some
things I don’t want to agree to—maybe
the other side does the same—but to do
our work, to pass a law. Isn’t that why
we were elected—to solve these prob-
lems rather than sit here and give
speeches about the problems?
I want the day to come when these
poor staff people breathe a sigh of re-
lief and say: The Dream Act finally
passed, and maybe DURBIN will stop
giving these speeches on the floor
about these magnificent young stu-
dents. I would like that day to come
soon, certainly before January 19.
Zarna wrote me a letter. She says:
As I got older . . . I began to understand
just how complicated US immigration laws
were and how stacked the odds were against
me. Here I was, in a country that I loved,
that I rooted for, that I thought to be the
greatest in the world, while my family paid
taxes for services that I would never be eligi-
ble for. There I was, serving a country that
did not even value me as a human being, all
because of a piece of paper. And yet, after all
that I have been through and after all that
this country has said about me, I still call it
my heart, my passion and my home.
Close to 70 Dreamers are enrolled in
our medical schools. I mentioned Loy-
ola, but there are others. I thank them
all for giving these young people a
chance. If DACA goes away and isn’t
replaced by Congress, they can’t be-
come doctors. They will be deported
back to their countries, in many situa-
tions, where they haven’t lived since
they were babies.
Will we be a better country if Zarna
Patel is asked to leave? Will we be a
stronger Nation? Would Chicago, would
Springfield, would Illinois be better? Of
course not.
The Association of American Medical
Colleges reports that the Nation’s doc-
tor shortage is going to get worse be-
cause a lot of boomers and others are
getting older and need help. We need
more doctors, and we need good ones—
good ones like Zarna Patel promises to
be.
Both the AMA and the Association of
American Medical Colleges have
warned that ending DACA will make
the physician shortage in America
worse. They have urged Congress to do
something about it.
Here is what the American Medical
Association says:
Estimates have shown that the DACA ini-
tiative could help introduce over 5,400 pre-
viously ineligible [doctors] into the U.S.
healthcare system in the coming decades to
help address [physician] shortages and en-
sure patient access to care. . . . Removing
those with DACA status will particularly
create care shortages for rural and other un-
derserved areas. . . . Without these physi-
cians, the AMA is concerned that the quality
of care in these communities will be nega-
tively impacted.
When we introduced the Dream Act,
Senator LINDSEY GRAHAM, Republican
of South Carolina, said: ‘‘The moment
of reckoning is coming.’’ It is coming
soon and coming in a matter of days.
By January 19, we have to do some-
thing. We have run out of time, and we
have run out of excuses. We have run
out of the opportunity to help Zarna
Patel and a lot of people like her be a
part of America’s future. Now is the
time to act.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Thank you, Mr.
President, and happy new year to you.
For my 191st ‘‘Time to Wake Up’’
speech, I want to take the change of
years to reflect on what 2017 meant for
our carbon pollution of the Earth’s cli-
mate and what 2018 may bring.
Our human use of fossil fuels contin-
ued to pour carbon dioxide into the at-
mosphere in 2017. The concentration of
CO2 in the atmosphere now stands at
almost 407 parts per million—the high-
est in human history and more than 100
parts per million above the safe range
in which human development for mil-
lennia has flourished. Each year brings
a new record concentration of CO2 in
our atmosphere, and this will continue
to worsen until the world weans itself
off fossil fuels.
Of course, the contamination of our
Earth and atmosphere by carbon pollu-
tion is matched by the contamination
of our politics by unlimited and often
hidden fossil fuel industry money,
threats, and promises. When the ac-
counting comes for what they have
done to the Government of the United
States, there will be a lot to answer
for.
We are in a heck of a cold snap now,
as the boundaries of normal weather
get blown out in all directions by cli-
mate change, but the underlying,
steady warming trend through all
these new extremes of hot and cold and
wet and dry is obvious.
Here in the United States, everyone
in the lower 48, except for a few pock-
ets up in the Northwest where things
stayed fairly steady, has seen hotter
than average temperatures. This rep-
resents hot. This represents cold. As
you can see, most of the map matches
the hot end. These are the mean tem-
perature departures from average for
January to November 2017.
Residents of the desert Southwest
and of coastal Texas and Louisiana and
much of the Southeast lived through
their hottest year ever in 2017. Record
warming is this color. You see it all
through these areas, record warmest
temperature.
Up in the Arctic, where temperatures
are rising twice as fast as the rest of
the globe, 2017 was the second hottest
year ever. In Barrow, AK, the tempera-
ture rose so rapidly that computer al-
gorithms kicked in and flagged the un-
derlying data as suspect. The computer
felt something must have gone wrong
with the equipment and flagged the
data as suspect. In fact, the readings
were extraordinary, but they were real.
That was the temperature.
We also saw a punishing onslaught of
extreme weather in 2017, making it the
most expensive disaster year in U.S.
history, costing nearly $400 billion in
damages. The United States had aver-
aged fewer than six billion-dollar
weather-related disasters a year. Be-
tween January and late October 2017,
we experienced 16, which killed 282 peo-
ple. Final estimates of the devastation
during 2017 aren’t complete. It may
prove that 1,000 lost lives are attrib-
utable to Hurricane Maria and its
aftermath in Puerto Rico.
The 2017 Atlantic hurricane season
brought 17 named storms, 10 hurri-
canes, and 6 major hurricanes—those
with average wind speeds exceeding 115
miles per hour.
In August, Hurricane Harvey roared
ashore with winds over 130 miles per
hour, dropping more than 60 inches of
rain over the Houston and Port Arthur
areas. Areas that aren’t even on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.015 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S14 January 3, 2018
flood maps found themselves flooded.
Scientists agree that the unprece-
dented Texas deluge was only made
possible by a warming atmosphere.
September brought Hurricanes Irma
and Maria, which ravaged the Carib-
bean, including the U.S. Virgin Islands,
Puerto Rico, and the Bahamas, as well
as Florida. Much of Puerto Rico is still
without power months after the storm.
Abnormally warm waters in the trop-
ical Atlantic fueled this punishing suc-
cession of storms.
Out West, 2017’s high temperatures
and low rainfall created conditions ripe
for wildfire.
As of November, more than 6.4 mil-
lion acres had burned—an area roughly
the size of the Commonwealth of Mas-
sachusetts—making 2017 the third most
active fire year in history.
In October, fast-moving wildfires laid
waste to the California wine country,
destroying almost 9,000 structures and
killing more than 40 people. They were
the costliest fires in U.S. history,
bringing $9 billion in damage and $85
billion in economic loss.
In December, the Thomas fire ex-
ploded across coastal California, burn-
ing over 280,000 acres on its way to be-
coming the largest wildfire in Cali-
fornia history. Notably, fire season
should have been over by then in Cali-
fornia, extinguished by December’s
customary winter rains, but not in
2017. Southern California had near-
record low rainfall this winter, leaving
vegetation desiccated and ready to ig-
nite.
The evidence continued to pile up in
2017 of the connection between climate
change and this extreme weather. The
American Meteorological Society re-
leased a report showing that a major-
ity of extreme weather and climatic
events in 2016 were influenced by
human-caused climate change. Indeed,
the report found that the record aver-
age global temperatures in 2016, the
record warm waters in the North Pa-
cific, and the record temperatures in
Asia simply would not have occurred
without human-caused climate change.
We should not—as we too often do—
overlook the oceans. The added carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere that has run
up the concentration to 407 parts per
million alters the ocean’s very chem-
istry. The added heat trapped by that
carbon dioxide in the atmosphere gets
picked up by the oceans, and it raises
ocean temperatures. Warmer, more
acidic seas destroy coral reefs, displace
fisheries, and rise along populous
shores. We measure all this already.
With all these alarm bells ringing,
how did the United States respond in
2017 to the climate crisis? Our newly
inaugurated President, Donald Trump,
pointedly ignored the global political
and scientific consensus that climate
change poses a grave risk to our way of
life—a prediction shared by our State
universities, our National Labora-
tories, our major scientific associa-
tions, and even our military. President
Trump nominated fossil fuel stooge
Scott Pruitt to run the Environmental
Protection Agency. For Energy Sec-
retary, Trump nominated Rick Perry,
who uses his office to promote fossil
fuel, even announcing a plan to sub-
sidize the coal industry after private
meetings with big Trump coal company
donors. Then there is Ryan Zinke,
Trump’s Secretary of the Interior, who
decided to reopen public lands to coal
mining and wants to roll back the rule
limiting methane emissions from oil
and gas drilling on our American pub-
lic lands. It is literally the three
stooges.
In May, President Trump announced
America’s withdrawal from the Paris
climate agreement, leaving the United
States the only country on Earth to re-
ject this landmark pact.
This is not leadership; this is its cor-
rupted opposite. This administration is
in hock to the fossil fuel industry like
no other. Trump and his pals haven’t
drained the swamp; they have jumped
right in with the biggest swamp mon-
sters of all.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce pays
for a phony ‘‘study’’ claiming the Paris
Agreement would cost jobs and eco-
nomic growth; Trump pulls us out of
Paris. The American Petroleum Insti-
tute complains about rules limiting
methane emissions; Pruitt and Zinke
try to roll them back. The Auto Alli-
ance complains about fuel efficiency
standards that the auto companies
agreed to for American cars; Pruitt
starts a project to water them down.
Trump takes money by the shovelful
from fossil fuel donors, and Pence
dances on the Koch brothers’ strings.
Yet 2017 offered reasons to remain op-
timistic. First is the explosion in re-
newable energy.
In 2017, renewables provided nearly 20
percent of electricity generation in the
United States. As wind and solar costs
fell, utilities across the country—even
in red States—invested heavily in wind
and solar. The renewable energy indus-
try hit 3.3 million jobs—more than all
fossil fuel jobs combined.
More good news: The leadership void
left by the corrupted Trump adminis-
tration was filled by thousands of
State and local governments, busi-
nesses, academic institutions, and faith
organizations which pledged to honor
the Paris Agreement and reduce their
carbon emissions. The States of Cali-
fornia, Connecticut, Hawaii, New York,
North Carolina, Oregon, Virginia,
Washington, and, I am proud to say,
Rhode Island, have all declared that
they are still in. Alaska announced it
would meet its goals. What is more,
California and Washington joined with
Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,
and Mexico to announce a plan to put
a price on carbon to rein in emissions.
Businesses in 2017 exercised climate
leadership in the marketplace. Leading
asset manager BlackRock helped break
the back of Exxon’s and Occidental Pe-
troleum’s opposition to shareholder
resolutions requiring them to report
their climate risk to their share-
holders. Multinational insurance firm
AXA announced it would divest from
its tar sands holdings and stop insuring
pipelines that transport tar sands oil.
Credit rating agency Moody’s an-
nounced it will consider climate risk in
rating coastal communities’ municipal
bonds. Companies like Microsoft and
Unilever have their own baked-in, in-
ternal carbon price to help them reduce
the carbon intensity of their oper-
ations.
Then there are the court battles. In
2017, multiple California municipalities
sued fossil fuel companies under the
State public nuisance law to seek help
with the huge adaptation costs they
face as sea level rises and extreme
weather becomes more common.
State attorneys general in Massachu-
setts and New York defeated attempts
by ExxonMobil to disrupt their fraud
investigation into whether the com-
pany has been covering up what it
knew about the risks posed by fossil
fuels. By the way, at the very end of
last year, we discovered there were re-
ports through the American Petroleum
Institute of the dangers of climate
change from renowned scientists, in-
cluding Edward Teller, going back to
1959. That is how long this coverup may
have been going on.
So these various things that are hap-
pening among businesses, among
States, among leaders, among other
countries, among State attorneys gen-
eral, and the courts give me hope for
2018. The renewable energy revolution
will continue. It is unstoppable as
prices drive the market their way. For-
ward-thinking business leaders will re-
alize they must fight for good climate
policy not just within their own com-
panies but also here in Washington.
They need to start showing up. Amer-
ica’s courts will provide a forum for
truth and disclosure—two things very
scarce in climate denial—which fossil
fuel companies, for that reason, have
for years fiercely fought to avoid, but
judges will insist on answers, plaintiffs
are entitled to discovery, and lying in
court gets you punished.
World and State and local leaders
have picked up the mantle abandoned
by Washington Republicans and, who
knows, there is always hope. Repub-
licans and Democrats in Congress just
might reflect on 2017—on the hurri-
canes and the wildfires and all the
changes already taking place in our
home States; may reflect on what all of
our home State universities are telling
us; may look at where young and inde-
pendent voters are on this issue; may
heed the longstanding warnings of our
U.S. military and maybe—just maybe—
step out from under the bullying shad-
ow of the fossil fuel industry and come
together to solve our climate crisis.
Here are my 2018 resolutions: Let’s
put a price on carbon emissions so
their release into the atmosphere re-
flects the true cost, as market theory
says it should. This market-based solu-
tion is endorsed by leading thinkers
and analysts on the left and the right.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.017 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S15
January 3, 2018
Let’s also launch carbon capture and
storage, including direct air capture.
Let’s launch carbon-free advanced nu-
clear technologies. Let’s help America
lead the world in the fight to stave off
irreversible climate catastrophe with
the new technologies that we are the
world’s best at developing. Finally, for
coastal States like my home State of
Rhode Island—which faced the irrev-
ocable upward march of warming seas
on a warming planet—let’s make sure
coastal communities have the re-
sources they need to predict and pre-
vent or prepare for the future that
looms.
We owe this to our children and to
our children’s children. We owe it to all
future generations that will look back
at us and ask: When it was so obvious,
how is it possible that the Government
of the United States—how is it possible
that this city on a hill—could do noth-
ing but the bidding of the most con-
flicted industry on the planet? In 2018,
let’s get this right.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak in morn-
ing business for such time as I may
consume.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I begin
by wishing everyone a happy new year,
and hopefully everyone had a great
Christmas. We did.
I have three observations I wish to
make about 2018. First, here in Wash-
ington, we are experiencing some real-
ly frigid temperatures this week. Let
me tell my colleagues that in Okla-
homa, it was even colder there than it
was here. That is unusual, but it was.
So we experienced recordbreaking, bit-
ter, cold weather, and it was pretty
miserable, but the great, warm people
of Oklahoma had a great Christmas,
New Year’s, and everything is good.
Many parts of the country saw 2017
with the recordbreaking cold weather,
and meteorologists are predicting more
recordbreaking cold for the rest of the
week and the beginning of next week.
I bring this up to highlight the fact
that President Trump joked last week
on Twitter. He said: ‘‘We could use a
little bit of that good old global warm-
ing.’’ I say it a little bit differently. I
say: Where is global warming when we
need it because we sure needed it this
last week. Well, the alarmists went
crazy over this. Let me explain what
an alarmist is.
Alarmists believe global warming is
coming due to anthropogenic gases,
and the world is coming to an end.
They are the ones who jumped on that,
and they actually went crazy for not
understanding the difference between
weather and climate.
We keep saying the same thing.
Every time we go through one of these
periods where we experience an event
again, we have the same thing that
comes up, and we talk about it. Cli-
mate is always changing. We under-
stand that. We actually had a unani-
mous vote on the floor of the Senate,
saying, yes, climate changes; it has al-
ways changed. Historically, scriptur-
ally, there has always been change. We
understand that. Anyway, I remember
I have been criticized for the same
thing.
My colleagues might remember, I
brought a snowball here a couple of
Februaries ago to show we are not ex-
periencing climate change when it
snows in February, after we have been
told for decades that soon we wouldn’t
have any snow again.
That was really kind of a fun thing.
I had some of the pages lined up, and I
asked: Which one of you guys is the
most athletic? It happened that the
guy who raised his hand—they all
pointed to him and said: He is the guy
who is most athletic, and he was from
Oklahoma. So I said: I will tell you
what I will do. I will take the snowball,
throw it up there at the Presiding Offi-
cer, and you intercept it. If you don’t
intercept it, it will be a mess. He inter-
cepted it. It was beautiful.
Sometimes people have to quit being
so serious about all of this stuff and re-
alize there are things that are hap-
pening that people need to talk about,
that are for real, on point. Some might
remember Al Gore made some pretty
outrageous claims. Enough years have
gone by, but he said that by the dead-
lines he pointed out, global warming
was going to cause all the snow to melt
on Mount Kilimanjaro. I was not far
from Kilimanjaro just a few weeks ago,
and the snow is still there.
He said that by 2016 the Arctic would
be completely melted and all the polar
bears would be extinct. None of that
happened. The only thing that has hap-
pened, according to an article in the
New York Times, is that Al Gore has
now become the first environmental
billionaire. Critics were quick to jump
on my case when he did that, and I had
to remind them that there is a dif-
ference between weather and climate.
Those same critics are also quick to
jump on weather events when it sup-
ports their cause. Whenever there is a
particularly bad tornado in Okla-
homa—and we have bad tornadoes in
Oklahoma; I have never seen a good
tornado—there are people who have
witnessed them, and I am immediately
asked if this will cause me to change
my mind about global warming or cli-
mate change. I said: Why? Alarmists
have been insisting for a long period of
time that the world is coming to an
end, and it is coming to an end because
of global warming.
After this past hurricane season, I
was repeatedly ask if I thought climate
change was to blame for the tragic nat-
ural disasters. Again, I responded: You
alarmists have been insisting that
weather isn’t climate; so why do you
change your position now?
I am not surprised that we have hur-
ricanes during hurricane season, we
have tornadoes during tornado season,
and we have cold and snow during the
winter. That is not unique to just my
State of Oklahoma. That is all over the
country and all over the world.
We hear constantly that natural dis-
asters are getting worse. Yet, when we
look at the data, there is no support
for the conclusion. When category 4
Hurricane Harvey hit Texas and other
Gulf States, it was the first major hur-
ricane to make landfall in the conti-
nental United States for 12 years. The
next largest gap between major hurri-
canes actually lasted only 8 years, and
that was in the 1860s. Tornado activity
has also been down in recent years,
with the latest data of 2016 showing a
continued low number of tornadoes
across the United States. I might say
that this is also true for my State of
Oklahoma. Since we are experiencing
recordbreaking cold last week and this
week in much of the country, we are
once again reminded that weather is
not climate.
So what is happening on the climate
front? Now, keep in mind that the
alarmists are the ones saying that the
world is coming to an end because of
global warming. They say that we all
will be burned to death and tempera-
tures are skyrocketing. Over the last
couple of years, we have been told that
it was the hottest year on record. We
have been scolded by the jet-setting
Hollywood celebrities about our carbon
footprint, but, again, if we actually
look at the data, there isn’t support for
all of this hysteria.
The Obama administration touted
2014, 2015, and 2016 as the hottest years
on record. But the increases are well
within the margin of error. In 2016,
NOAA said the Earth warmed by 0.04
degrees Celsius, and the British Gov-
ernment pegged it at 0.01 Celsius. How-
ever, the margin of error is 0.1 degree,
not 0.01. So it is all statistically mean-
ingless and below the doom-and-gloom
temperature predictions from all the
various models from consensus sci-
entists.
Now, this is interesting. Steven
Koonin was appointed Under Secretary
for Science at the Department of En-
ergy by President Obama. That was
during the Obama administration. He
said: ‘‘The Obama administration re-
lentlessly politicized science and ag-
gressively pushed a campaign about
that politicized science.’’ In other
words, he used that to make a case
that is not true, and this comes out of
his own administration.
In September 2017, University of Ala-
bama in Huntsville climate scientists
John Christy and Richard McNider
published a study showing no accelera-
tion in global warming for the last 23
years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.018 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S16 January 3, 2018
Their research shows that if you re-
move the climate effects of two vol-
canic eruptions and the El Nino and La
Nina systems that occurred over the
last 38 years, there has been no change
since the early 1990s to the rate of
warming and that model predictions
from the IPCC are overstated by about
double.
Keep in mind that the IPCC is the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change of the United Nations. They
started this about 40 years ago, and
their scientists have been completely
discredited.
I remember when that took place in
Copenhagen. They had one of the big
annual United Nations parties. At that
time, Lisa Jackson was Obama’s Ad-
ministrator of the EPA. She knew I
was going to go there and tell the truth
to all these people.
I asked her this question on the pub-
lic record. In the event that I leave
town and you are going to start regu-
lating global warming, you have to
first declare that there is an urgency
to this and you have to use a scientific
declaration. What science will you use?
She said: We are going to use the
IPCC, or the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change.
As luck would have it, just a matter
of days after, the IPCC was totally re-
jected. Everyone remembers how they
had been caught rigging the informa-
tion in terms of weather, and it was
really quite a mess.
Going back to Christy’s explanation,
which just came out the other day, the
volcanic eruptions cooled the Earth
when ash, soot, and debris entered the
atmosphere and sunlight was reflected
away. ‘‘Those eruptions happened rel-
atively early in our study period,
which pushed down temperatures in
the first part of the dataset, which
caused the overall record to show an
exaggerated warming trend.’’
So we have two respected climate
scientists using sound science to dis-
credit the so-called consensus sci-
entists. By the way, there are hundreds
of other scientists out there. One of the
best known is a guy from MIT named
Richard Lindzen. He has been very out-
spoken on this.
So every time we hear people talking
that ‘‘there is a consensus of science,’’
I think we know better. Remember
that the media does not share the stud-
ies. So quite often they do not say any-
thing about some of the failed prac-
tices being used to draw us to these
conclusions. I am thankful we have a
President and an administration that
refuses to handcuff our economy with
policies based on overblown headlines.
So while we continue to have torna-
does in May, hurricanes in the fall, and
bitterly cold temperatures in the win-
ter, we must remember that the cli-
mate has been stable over the last few
decades, and we shouldn’t give in to
the fearmongers out there. Rather, we
should focus on actual threats to
American families, like the regime
which calls for ‘‘death to America’’ and
‘‘death to Israel.’’
IRAN
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, one
week ago today, the men and women of
Iran began protesting in the streets. It
began with people speaking out against
a sluggish economy, and economic
growth does not exist in Iran. People
finally got fed up with it. Keep in mind
that the country of Iran is still recog-
nized as the financial backbone of ter-
rorism throughout the world.
The State media in Iran has reported
that over 20 individuals have died in
these protests for their own freedom
and over 450 have been arrested since
the regime’s violent crackdown against
the protesters. Let’s keep in mind what
they are protesting for. They just want
some of the freedoms they know other
countries have, and right now they
don’t see any other way to make this
happen.
In an act that defies transparency
and democratic principles, the regime
has shut down social media and mes-
saging sites, limiting the flow of infor-
mation about the protests. In other
words, they are not letting the outside
world know what is going on there.
Iran clearly thinks they can get away
with this flagrant disregard of human
rights, and why shouldn’t they? Under
the Obama administration, Iran was
able to violently crack down on demo-
cratic protesters in 2009, to continue
ballistic missile tests in violation of
U.N. resolutions, and to finance ter-
rorist organizations in the region with-
out international condemnation or re-
percussions. Remember, Iran is the fi-
nancial backbone of terrorism in that
part of the world.
Just last month we learned how the
Obama administration undermined law
enforcement efforts against
Hezbollah’s drug trafficking oper-
ations. Hezbollah is well-known to be a
proxy of Iran. Everybody knows it is a
terrorist organization. But rather than
going after the financial backing of a
known terrorist organization, Obama
swept it under the rug. His focus was
on creating and then protecting the
flawed Iran nuclear deal—a deal Obama
promised would end Iran’s aggressive
behavior in the region and promote re-
forms in Iran through economic oppor-
tunity.
The actual results of the deal have
never been clearer. The ruling elite of
Tehran continues their aggressive be-
havior by putting their nation’s re-
sources toward supporting Assad’s re-
gime in Syria, testing ballistic mis-
siles, and committing human rights
abuses against women and religious
minorities. It is no wonder that free-
dom-loving men and women in Iran
seek meaningful change.
Fortunately, President Trump has al-
ready been clear that the United States
stands behind the rights of Iranian citi-
zens for peaceful protests.
Maybe the Ayatollah doesn’t recall
or didn’t get the message from Presi-
dent Trump when he was sworn in last
year: Under President Trump, America
is the leader of the free world again—
standing up for common, human dig-
nity and democratic values. He has
backed up his support with action,
weighing additional sanctions against
the regime and having U.N. Ambas-
sador Nikki Haley—who is doing a
great job, by the way—call for emer-
gency U.N. meetings to address the
human rights concerns.
I support his efforts and look forward
to working with the President and his
administration to enact any needed
sanctions against Iran in order to ad-
vance freedom and democracy.
f
TAX REFORM BILL AND
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I men-
tioned that there were three things I
wanted to address for this new year.
The third is tax reform.
We are approaching 1 year under
President Trump’s administration, and
we are already seeing the benefits of
tax reform and cutting harmful regula-
tions.
The comprehensive tax reform legis-
lation passed by Congress last month
will allow American families to keep
more of their hard-earned money—
which we had been talking about for a
long time—and it will make it easier
for businesses to grow and hire more
hardworking people.
Already, businesses across the coun-
try—such as American Airlines, South-
west Air, Boeing, Comcast, Wells
Fargo, AT&T, and Express Employ-
ment Professionals, headquartered in
Oklahoma City, in my State of Okla-
homa—have announced investments in
their employees and businesses as a re-
sult of the tax bill.
Clearly, the tax reform will com-
pound the economic growth we have al-
ready seen as a result of President
Trump’s consistent efforts to cut regu-
lations his first year.
Following the severe economic reces-
sion of 2008 and uncertainty in the fu-
ture, many companies had chosen not
to invest in their business or their em-
ployees. During the Obama administra-
tion, Federal bureaucrats unleashed
hundreds of regulations that increased
the cost of doing business, stifling job
creation, and the result was obvious.
According to a report by the Heritage
Foundation, by 2015 Obama’s regula-
tions were costing taxpayers over $100
billion a year. With these limitations
on job creators, it is no surprise that
the average GDP growth under Presi-
dent Obama was just a little over 1.5
percent—no matter that previously,
throughout history, in the United
States it has consistently been about 3
percent.
In less than 1 year, by directing Fed-
eral agencies to delay, withdraw, or in-
validate 1,600 planned regulatory ac-
tions, President Trump has done what
President Obama was unable to do in 8
years; that is, to restore the confidence
of the American business community.
He did this by reversing the Obama
regulations. I have one—in fact, I have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.020 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S17
January 3, 2018
taken the time to list these regulations
that were putting people out of busi-
ness.
I ask unanimous consent to have
printed in the RECORD a document enti-
tled ‘‘Congressional Review Act Reso-
lutions Passed’’ at the conclusion of
my remarks.
There are two ways you can get rid of
regulations. One way is to do it
through Executive actions. I think ev-
eryone knows what that is. The more
difficult way is to do it through the
Congressional Review Act Resolutions;
that is, the CRAs. I was very proud of
the first CRA that we were able to get
passed. It was one that I introduced,
and it was one that is very popular. It
was a rule that was put in during the
Obama administration that said that
we were in competition with the do-
mestic oil and gas companies with
China or some other company, and we
had to give to them how we put to-
gether our playbook, which would put
the U.S. companies at a disadvantage.
We did a CRA on that, and I was very
proud to do that. I think people should
look at these and realize the great re-
sults we had as a result of doing away
with the overregulations. I have them
listed here, and this is something peo-
ple are not really aware of.
On January 1, the New York Times
even recognized the positive effect of
the President’s deregulatory agenda.
This doesn’t happen very often with
the New York Times, but they reported
on a new ‘‘wave of optimism’’ in Amer-
ican business.
Listen to this. The ‘‘Trump effect’’—
this is what the New York Times is
calling it, very appropriately, I might
add—‘‘is beginning to translate to in-
vestment in new plants, equipment,
and facility upgrades that bolster eco-
nomic growth.’’
This is from the New York Times.
They continued by saying that with
the lowest unemployment rate in 17
years, we are also seeing the ‘‘Trump
effect’’—again, that is their term—on
wages as businesses invest in their
workforce by raising wages to keep at-
tracting skilled employees.
This week the Wall Street Journal
reported that cities like Minneapolis
have seen a 4-percent wage growth in
the last year—the highest growth in 6
years.
I am confident we are going to hear
more success stories around the coun-
try. The proof is in the numbers. For
the first two full quarters of the Trump
administration, starting with the sec-
ond quarter of 2017—the ones he would
have control over—we have increased
the GDP growth to over 3 percent. That
is pretty amazing—over 3 percent. This
is from the average of 11⁄2 percent.
What is important about this is, for
each 1 percent increase in economic ac-
tivity, or the GDP, that translates into
additional revenue coming into the
government of about $3 trillion over a
10-year period. That is why, in the 1981
tax cut under Reagan, they started the
year with the total revenue coming in
to be $469 billion. But then, as a result
of the tax reduction, the increased eco-
nomic activity increased it to $750 bil-
lion. We actually increased our revenue
by decreasing the individual rate.
Finally, the made-in-America econ-
omy is running at full speed again. We
have three huge success stories of the
Trump administration: No. 1, elimi-
nating the Obama overregulations to
free up businesses and, No. 2, reestab-
lishing America as a leader in the free
world by reversing the Obama policy of
appeasement. Hiram Mann said: ‘‘No
man survives when freedom fails, the
best men rot in filthy jails, and those
who cry ‘appease, appease’ are hanging
by those they tried to please.’’ And No.
3 is tax reform—the first tax reform in
three decades.
With that, I want to say happy new
year; 2018 is going to be great.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW ACT RESOLUTIONS
PASSED
1. SEC Rule requiring oil and gas compa-
nies to disclose their ‘‘playbooks’’ on how to
win deals. Inhofe CRA—first signed since
2001.
2. Stream Buffer Zone rule that blocks coal
mining.
3. Education rule mandating federal stand-
ards for evaluating teacher performance.
4. Education rule establishing national
school board.
5. Interior rule that blocked Alaska-con-
trol of hunting & fishing.
6. Social Security rule that put seniors
with ‘‘representative payees’’ on gun-ban
list.
7. OSHA rule that changed paperwork vio-
lation statute of limitations from 6-months
to 5-years.
8. Defense rule that blocked contractors
from getting deals if suspected (not con-
victed) of employment- law violations.
9. Labor rule blocking drug-testing of un-
employment beneficiaries.
10. BLM rule blocking oil and gas develop-
ment on federal lands.
11. Federal Communications Commission
rule that would have established 2nd regime
of privacy rules in addition to Federal Trade
Commission.
12. HHS rule that would make it easier for
states to fund Planned Parenthood.
13. Department of Labor (DOL) rule forcing
private sector employees onto government
run retirement plans.
14. DOL rule allowing states to bypass pro-
tections on retirement plans.
15. CFPB Arbitration Rule.
Note: the 15 CRAs are estimated to save
the American taxpayers $3.7 billion. Inhofe’s
revoking SEC rule for oil and gas companies
will save almost $1.3 billion.
TRUMP EXECUTIVE ACTIONS
1. Regulatory reform: requires 2 regula-
tions be repealed for each new regulation.
2. WOTUS: directs EPA to rescind Waters
of the United States Act.
3. Energy: repeals clean power plan, other
harmful regulations . . . ending War on Fos-
sil Fuels.
4. Mexico City: reinstates ban of fed funds
going to NGOs that do abortions.
5. Hiring Freeze: freezes federal hiring (ex-
empted military).
6. Military: rebuilds military.
7. Approves Keystone XL pipeline.
8. Approves Dakota Access pipeline.
9. Permit Streamlining: expedites infra-
structure and manufacturing project per-
mits.
10. Immigration: 90 day suspension on visas
for visitors from Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia,
Sudan, Yemen. 20 day suspension of U.S. Ref-
ugee Admission Program.
11. Sanctuary Cities: blocks federal Depart-
ment of Justice grants to sanctuary cities.
12. Dodd-Frank: demands review of Dodd-
Frank banking regulations and demanding
roll-back.
13. Shrink government: directs federal
agencies to reorganize to reduce waste and
duplication.
14. Trade: evaluates policies to reduce
trade deficit.
15. Opioids: fed task force to address opioid
drug crisis.
16. Fiduciary rule: delays implementation
of bad DOL rule.
17. Religious Liberty: Eases enforcement of
Johnson Amendment and grants other pro-
tections for religious freedom.
18. Offshore drilling: revises Obama-era off-
shore drilling restrictions and orders a re-
view of limits on drilling locations.
19. National Monuments: Directs a review
of national monument designations.
20. Improves accountability and whistle-
blower protections for VA employees.
21. Affirms local control of school policies
and examines Department of Ed regulations.
22. Reviews agricultural regulations.
23. Reviews use of H–1B visas.
24. Top-to-bottom audit of Executive
Branch.
25. Moves Historically Black Colleges and
Universities offices from Department of Ed
to White House.
26. Obamacare: directs federal agencies to
ease burdens of ACA.
27. Establishes American Technology
Council.
28. Establishes office of Trade and Manu-
facturing Policy.
29. Identifies and reduces tax regulatory
burdens.
30. ‘‘Hire America, Buy America.’’
31. Establishes a collection and enforce-
ment of antidumping and countervailing du-
ties and violations of Trade and Customs
laws.
32. Creates an order of succession within
DOJ.
33. Revokes federal contracting executive
orders.
34. Establishes Presidential Advisory Com-
mission on Election Integrity.
35. Reforms education and workforce pro-
grams and expands apprenticeship opportuni-
ties.
36. Updates visa and foreign visitor imple-
mentation plans through DHS and State De-
partment.
37. Strengthens cybersecurity for federal
networks and critical information tech-
nology infrastructure.
38. Revives National Space Council.
39. Extends actions against Sudan to Octo-
ber.
40. Establishes presidential advisory coun-
cil on infrastructure at Department of Com-
merce.
41. Strengthens domestic manufacturing
and defense industrial base.
42. Issues additional streamlining and ac-
countability in the environmental review
and permitting process for all infrastructure
projects—also revokes Obama flood risk
management standard order.
43. Imposes new sanctions on Venezuela.
44. Revokes Obama order that prohibited
state, local, and tribal law enforcement enti-
ties from accessing federal response equip-
ment.
45. Prohibits acquisitions by China entities
of a semiconductor company for national se-
curity reasons.
46. Trade: widens trade sanctions on North
Korea.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.022 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S18 January 3, 2018
47. Committees: continuing certain Federal
Advisory Committees.
48. Revokes Obama order that created
labor-management forums.
49. Promotes healthcare choice and com-
petition across the United States.
50. Provides the Secretary of Defense addi-
tional authority to manage personnel re-
quirements.
51. Resumes the United States Refugee Ad-
missions Program with Enhanced Vetting
Capabilities.
Mr. INHOFE. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
f
NOMINATION OF JOHN ROOD
Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, I rise
today to discuss the nomination of
John Rood for the position of Under
Secretary of Defense for Policy.
I am concerned about the influence of
different industries on key positions in
government. Today, the specific prob-
lem under discussion is the influence of
the defense industry over the Pen-
tagon. The defense industry in America
is powerful and profitable. The big five
defense contractors together rep-
resented more than $100 billion in gov-
ernment contracts in 2016 alone. Think
about that—5 corporations, $100 billion
in taxpayer money in 1 year.
The defense industry in America is
powerful. President Trump has stocked
the Pentagon with an unprecedented
number of nominees from defense in-
dustry. These nominees will oversee all
those government contracts. They will
influence which companies get billions
in taxpayer dollars and what exactly
those companies have to do to collect
their checks. Without strict ethics
rules and oversight, these nominees
have the power to significantly influ-
ence the profitability of their former
employers—the same companies that
may, once again, be the nominees’ fu-
ture employers after they have finished
their government service.
Mr. Rood may be a decent man, but
he is the latest example of this trend.
He will come to the Defense Depart-
ment directly from Lockheed Martin
International, where he was most re-
cently a senior vice president. Lock-
heed is the biggest of the big five de-
fense contractors. In 2016, the U.S. Gov-
ernment awarded the company over $40
billion in contracts. That was in 1 year.
According to his official bio sub-
mitted to the Senate Armed Services
Committee, Mr. Rood’s responsibilities
included ‘‘developing and executing
strategies to grow Lockheed Martin’s
international business’’ and ‘‘managing
marketing and government relations
activities’’ overseas. In other words, he
was responsible for selling Lockheed’s
products to other countries, and it
seems as though he was pretty good at
it. Lockheed made over $12 billion—or
more than one-quarter of its net
sales—from its international customers
in 2016.
Here is why that matters. According
to Lockheed’s most recent annual
statement, the international division
that Mr. Rood managed made about 66
percent of its sales to foreign cus-
tomers through the Pentagon’s Foreign
Military Sales Program. This is a pro-
gram that allows for the sale of U.S.
defense products overseas.
In that same report, Lockheed ac-
knowledges that its foreign sales are
‘‘highly sensitive’’ to changes in regu-
lations and ‘‘affected’’ by U.S. foreign
policy. In other words, government of-
ficials influence whether Lockheed’s
foreign military sales barely break
even or whether sales shoot through
the roof and bring in billions of dollars
for Lockheed.
If confirmed as Under Secretary of
Policy, Mr. Rood will play a significant
role in setting U.S. defense policy and
overseeing the regulation of foreign
military sales of those very same prod-
ucts to those very same countries. If he
is given this job with no constraints,
Mr. Rood could implement policies
that increase Lockheed’s profitability,
whether that is in the interest of the
American people or not.
Chairman MCCAIN and I questioned
Mr. Rood about this conflict of interest
during his confirmation hearing. I
asked him a simple yes-or-no question:
Would he commit not to seek a waiver
from his obligation to recuse himself
from Lockheed Martin business, as re-
quired by his ethics agreement? That is
all I asked.
He hemmed, he hawed, and finally
made it clear that, well, no, he would
not make that commitment.
So I asked him another simple ques-
tion: Would he at least recuse himself
from policy discussions about the sale
of Lockheed Martin products through
the Foreign Military Sales Program?
The answer was again clear. No, he
would not make that commitment ei-
ther.
I followed up with additional written
questions. I asked: ‘‘Mr. Rood, will you
commit not to seek or accept a waiver
from your recusal obligations under
your ethics agreement?’’
Here is his response. ‘‘I am concerned
that a commitment never to seek or
accept a waiver could unnecessarily re-
strict my ability, if confirmed, to take
an action that is important to U.S. na-
tional security and defense interests
should a circumstance arise that is
currently unforeseen.’’
In other words, no, he would not com-
mit to abide by his own ethics agree-
ment. Just think for a minute about
what that means. President Trump has
nominated an industry executive to
one of our most senior national secu-
rity positions, and that individual is
unwilling to steer clear of the conflicts
of interest involved in doing that job.
I think the standard here should be
pretty simple. If a nominee cannot do
the job to which he has been nominated
without seeking a waiver from his eth-
ical obligations, then he should not
have that job.
Mr. Rood is not the only Trump
nominee with this problem. The Presi-
dent has nominated many other execu-
tives from industry to the most senior
positions at the Department of De-
fense. The Deputy Secretary of Defense
was previously a senior vice president
at Boeing. He now runs the Pentagon’s
budget process, including making the
final call on which defense programs
get funding and which do not.
The Secretary of the Army was a sen-
ior lobbyist for Raytheon and even ran
Raytheon’s political action committee.
The Under Secretary of the Army, the
No. 2 position, was also a vice president
at Lockheed. The Deputy Chief Man-
agement Officer previously ran XCOR
Aerospace, now a bankrupt developer
of rocket engines and space launch sys-
tems. The Under Secretary of Defense
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logis-
tics spent her career at Textron, an
aerospace and defense contractor.
I could go on with this list. I don’t
doubt that many of these individuals
are service-minded, and I know that
many have also served honorably in
government, both in and out of uni-
form. I also believe that a strong part-
nership between government and indus-
try is important to our national de-
fense.
Industry experience, in and of itself,
does not disqualify someone from pub-
lic service, but there must be balance.
When too many top government jobs
are filled by industry insiders, we risk
corporate capture of the whole policy
making process.
The overrepresentation of defense in-
dustry officials at the highest levels of
the Department of Defense has real
consequences. It suggests to the Amer-
ican people that only one viewpoint or
one experience will dominate our pol-
icy making decisions. No outsiders, no
one with a competing point of view
need apply, and the revolving door be-
tween industry and government raises
questions about who our government
serves.
No taxpayer should have to wonder
whether the top policy makers at the
Pentagon are pushing defense products
and foreign military sales for any rea-
son other than the protection of the
United States of America. No Amer-
ican should have to wonder whether
the Defense Department is acting to
protect the national interests of our
Nation or the financial interests of the
five giant defense contractors. No man
or woman in uniform should have to
wonder whether their civilian leaders
are putting the private financial inter-
ests of themselves and their friends
ahead of the safety and the interests of
our military servicemembers.
The American people have a right to
know who their government works for
and that the senior leadership of the
Department of Defense is putting our
national security first. Everyone has a
right to know that. The readiness and
safety of our men and women in uni-
form is too important for any of us to
have to ask those questions.
As a member of the Senate Armed
Services Committee, I will not vote to
confirm any nominee from industry
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:36 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.010 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S19
January 3, 2018
who does not agree to fully recuse him-
self or herself from matters involving
their former employer for the duration
required by their ethics agreement,
without waiver and without exception.
I think we owe our soldiers, sailors,
airmen, and marines at least that
much.
Because he will not make the com-
mitment to abide by his own ethics
agreement without waiver or excep-
tion, I will be voting against Mr. Rood
as Under Secretary of Defense, and I
urge other Senators to do the same.
I yield back.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. LEE).
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
HONORING DOUGLAS COUNTY
SHERIFF’S DEPUTY ZACKARI
PARRISH
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I rise
to speak about a horrible tragedy that
took place in the early morning hours
of December 31 in Douglas County, CO,
when most Coloradoans were waking
up and preparing for a celebration that
evening to bring in the new year. Hours
later, a gunman would open fire on
Douglas County sheriff’s deputies in
what has been described by law en-
forcement as an ambush-style attack.
The gunman injured two citizens as
well as Sheriff’s Deputies Michael
Doyle, Jeff Pelle, Taylor Davis, and
Castle Rock Police Department Officer
Thomas O’Donnell. A fifth officer,
Douglas County Sheriff’s Deputy
Zackari Parrish, heroically gave his
life during this ambush in an attempt
to save the lives of others.
Deputy Parrish was 29 years old and
is survived by his wife, Gracie, and
their two young daughters.
Zack’s lifelong dream was to become
a police officer. He attended Arapahoe
Community College Law Enforcement
Academy part time while he worked
full time at a bank so he could make
these dreams come true. Following
graduation, Zack served for 2 years as
an officer at the Castle Rock Police
Department and spent the last 7
months as a Douglas County sheriff’s
deputy. His selfless nature and devo-
tion to his family and friends was a
testament to his tireless drive to pro-
tect his community. He was what every
officer strives to be—dedicated to the
job, persistent, and detail oriented.
At a vigil to honor Zack earlier this
week, his fellow deputies shared Zack’s
‘‘knack for finding things other cops
missed.’’ They spoke of ‘‘how he always
wanted to chase the bad guys’’ and
how, even when it was time to go
home, Zack would ‘‘stay late to make
one more check on patrol.’’ His family
and friends spoke of how Zack was
known for his ‘‘bear-sized love’’ and
even more so for his bear-sized hugs.
These are the qualities of those who
righteously wear the blue uniform.
These are the qualities that keep the
rest of us safe and sound. These are the
qualities of a hero. Zack, like all law
enforcement officers, went to work
each and every day being prepared to
walk that thin blue line.
Colleagues at the vigil spoke about
how Zack was not only dedicated to
the difficult parts of the job but also to
lifting the spirits of his fellow officers.
According to his fellow deputies, Zack
was known as the guy who would ‘‘hunt
for the best Christmas lights.’’ It is
that kind of passion, good nature, and
of course love for his community that
Zack will be remembered for.
As we saw on New Year’s Eve, while
the rest of us spent time with our fami-
lies and friends, our brave law enforce-
ment officers were protecting our com-
munities. Their sacrifice is why we
were able to celebrate with our loved
ones.
We owe so much to Zack and the law
enforcement officers across Colorado
and across the country for their serv-
ice. When a tragic event like this
unfolds, I am often reminded of the
words of LTC Dave Grossman, who
wrote that American law enforcement
is the loyal and brave sheep dog that is
always standing watch for the wolf
that lurks in the dark.
Regardless of their personal safety,
our law enforcement officers run to-
ward the danger. They are always there
to help others serve our communities,
and often through the worst of times,
they provide hope and safety to our
families, including mine, including
yours.
I continue to pray—and let all of us
continue to pray—for the other four of-
ficers and two citizens who were in-
jured in the attack. We must continue
to honor Zack’s memory and support
his brothers in blue as they continue
his work and support his dearly loved
family as they begin the new year in a
way they never could have imagined.
We honor his legacy and those who
serve.
I yield the floor.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to consider
the following nomination, which the
clerk will report.
The assistant bill clerk read the
nomination of John C. Rood, of Ari-
zona, to be Under Secretary of Defense
for Policy.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. There is
30 minutes equally divided for debate
on this nomination.
The Senator from Colorado.
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that all time be
yielded back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Rood nomina-
tion?
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from North Carolina (Mr.
BURR), the Senator from Utah (Mr.
HATCH), the Senator from Nevada (Mr.
HELLER), the Senator from Arizona
(Mr. MCCAIN), the Senator from Kansas
(Mr. MORAN), the Senator from Alaska
(Ms. MURKOWSKI), the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. PERDUE), the Senator
from Idaho (Mr. RISCH), the Senator
from Florida (Mr. RUBIO), and the Sen-
ator from South Carolina (Mr. SCOTT).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea,’’ the
Senator from Idaho (Mr. RISCH) would
have voted ‘‘yea,’’ and the Senator
from Florida (Mr. RUBIO) would have
voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
ERNST). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 81,
nays 7, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 1 Ex.]
YEAS—81
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Cochran
Collins
Coons
Corker
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Donnelly
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Flake
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Heinrich
Heitkamp
Hirono
Hoeven
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McCaskill
McConnell
Menendez
Murphy
Murray
Nelson
Paul
Peters
Portman
Reed
Roberts
Rounds
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Shelby
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—7
Booker
Gillibrand
Harris
Markey
Sanders
Warren
Wyden
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.023 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S20 January 3, 2018
NOT VOTING—12
Alexander
Burr
Hatch
Heller
McCain
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Risch
Rubio
Scott
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
f
LETTER OF RESIGNATION
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, as
in legislative session, I ask unanimous
consent that the resignation letter of
former Senator Al Franken to Gov-
ernor Dayton be read and spread upon
the Journal and printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the letter
was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, December 24, 2017.
Governor MARK DAYTON,
Office of Governor Mark Dayton & Lt. Governor
Tina Smith, Saint Paul, MN.
DEAR GOVERNOR DAYTON: I write to resign
my seat as a United States Senator for the
State of Minnesota effective at 1 pm Eastern
Standard Time on January 2, 2018. Serving
the State of Minnesota in the U.S. Senate
has been a privilege and an honor. I am
grateful to Minnesotans for giving me the
chance to serve our state and our nation, and
I am proud to have worked on their behalf.
Sincerely,
AL FRANKEN,
United States Senator.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
for the information of all Senators,
there will be no further rollcall votes
during this week’s session of the Sen-
ate.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 370, William
Campbell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of William L.
Campbell, Jr., of Tennessee, to be
United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Tennessee.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of William L. Campbell, Jr., of Ten-
nessee, to be United States District Judge
for the Middle District of Tennessee.
Mitch McConnell, Deb Fischer, John Bar-
rasso, John Thune, Roger F. Wicker,
James M. Inhofe, Johnny Isakson,
Mike Crapo, Tom Cotton, Chuck Grass-
ley, Thom Tillis, Mike Rounds, Mi-
chael B. Enzi, James Lankford,
Lindsey Graham, Pat Roberts, Todd
Young.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 371, Thomas
Parker.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Thomas Lee
Robinson Parker, of Tennessee, to be
United States District Judge for the
Western District of Tennessee.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Thomas Lee Robinson Parker, of
Tennessee, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of Tennessee.
Mitch McConnell, Deb Fischer, John Bar-
rasso, John Thune, Roger F. Wicker,
James M. Inhofe, Johnny Isakson,
Mike Crapo, Tom Cotton, Chuck Grass-
ley, Thom Tillis, Mike Rounds, Mi-
chael B. Enzi, James Lankford,
Lindsey Graham, Pat Roberts, Todd
Young.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 389, Michael
Brown.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Michael Law-
rence Brown, of Georgia, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern
District of Georgia.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Michael Lawrence Brown, of Geor-
gia, to be United States District Judge for
the Northern District of Georgia.
Mitch McConnell, Deb Fischer, John Bar-
rasso, John Thune, Roger F. Wicker,
James M. Inhofe, Johnny Isakson,
Mike Crapo, Tom Cotton, Chuck Grass-
ley, Thom Tillis, Mike Rounds, Mi-
chael B. Enzi, James Lankford,
Lindsey Graham, Pat Roberts, Todd
Young.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to legislative ses-
sion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.008 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S21
January 3, 2018
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I move to proceed to executive session
to consider Calendar No. 435, Walter
Counts.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Walter David
Counts III, of Texas, to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Texas.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Walter David Counts III, of Texas,
to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Texas.
Mitch McConnell, Deb Fischer, John Bar-
rasso, John Thune, Roger F. Wicker,
James M. Inhofe, Johnny Isakson,
Mike Crapo, Tom Cotton, Chuck Grass-
ley, Thom Tillis, Mike Rounds, Mi-
chael B. Enzi, James Lankford,
Lindsey Graham, Pat Roberts, Todd
Young.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the man-
datory quorum calls be waived and
that notwithstanding rule XXII, the
cloture motions filed during today’s
session of the Senate ripen at 5:30 p.m.
on Monday, January 8.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, due to
family commitments, I missed today’s
vote. Senate leadership was aware of
my absence, which would not impact
today’s confirmation vote.∑
TRIBUTE TO MATT MARTIN
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, today
I wish to recognize Matt Martin and
congratulate him on his investiture as
the U.S. attorney for the Middle Dis-
trict of North Carolina.
Matt earned his law degree and un-
dergraduate degree from the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, both
with the highest honors. Listed as one
of North Carolina’s ‘‘Super Lawyers,’’
Matt has extensive legal experience.
Matt was an associate at Covington &
Burling here in DC before moving back
to Raleigh, NC, where he became part-
ner at Smith Anderson. Most recently,
Matt worked as the associate general
counsel for Duke Energy.
In addition to a sterling career in pri-
vate practice, Matt exemplifies what it
means to be a community servant. He
has served on the board of directors for
a number of philanthropic organiza-
tions, including the Food Bank of Cen-
tral and Eastern North Carolina, Meals
on Wheels of Wake County, the Youth
Life Foundation of the Triangle, and
the Marbles Kids Museum. Addition-
ally, he served as chairman of the
Wake County Planning Board in Wake
County, NC.
Finally, Matt is actively engaged in
leading the next generation of attor-
neys. As a member of the North Caro-
lina Bar Association’s professionalism
committee, Matt works on legal edu-
cation programs and coaches law stu-
dents and junior attorneys through in-
ternship programs and formal and in-
formal mentoring.
It was an honor to join Senator BURR
in recommending Matt Martin to
President Trump. He is a dedicated
professional who has extensive legal
knowledge and expertise. In addition,
he is widely respected in the legal pro-
fession and the North Carolina commu-
nity at large. I know that Matt will
excel in leading the U.S. attorney’s of-
fice.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING MARY ANN RITTER
ARNOLD
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Madam President,
today I wish to remember the life and
service of Mayor Mary Ann Ritter Ar-
nold who served as mayor of Marked
Tree, AR, in Poinsett County. Mayor
Ritter passed away Thursday, Decem-
ber 21, at the age of 90.
Mary Ann was devoted to the town of
Marked Tree and loved it as much as
anybody. Her family has been a part of
the town from its inception, and she
would fondly remark about how she
loved ‘‘this little ol’ town’’ any chance
she got.
Earlier in life, she studied at the Uni-
versity of Missouri, where she grad-
uated in 1948 with a degree in home ec-
onomics and fashion design. She mar-
ried her husband, Sidney, and later,
they moved back to Mary Ann’s home-
town of Marked Tree. In 1976, Mary
Ann became president of E. Ritter &
Company, one of the most successful
family owned businesses in Arkansas.
A trailblazer in many respects, Mary
Ann was the first woman elected
mayor of Marked Tree when she won
the job in 2013. She gave back to the
community in so many ways, both
through the business she helped lead,
as well as through her own personal en-
gagement and involvement with her
neighbors and fellow citizens.
Among her many notable accom-
plishments and activities, she was
president of the Arkansas Telephone
Association, president of the Arkansas
Agricultural Council, was a longtime
member and former president of the
Marked Tree Rotary Club, served as a
justice of the peace, and was on the
Poinsett County Quorum Court for 22
years. She also served on the St.
Francis Levee Board and with the
Crowley’s Ridge Girl Scout Council. In
2015, she was inducted into the Arkan-
sas Women’s Hall of Fame.
A devoted wife and mother, an astute
and successful businesswoman, and a
dedicated public servant, Mayor Ritter
is truly missed and admired. Her leg-
acy lives on through her family and by
way of the tremendous impact she had
on so many in Marked Tree. I send my
condolences to her loved ones and the
community and join them in cele-
brating her remarkable life.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO LINDA CLOUTIER-
NAMDAR
∑ Mr. SANDERS. Madam President,
today I would like to recognize and
honor a remarkable Vermonter, Linda
Cloutier-Namdar, who is the recipient
of Vermont’s 2018 Teacher of the Year
Award.
Linda Cloutier-Namdar has taught
ninth grade core at Essex High School
since its inception, helping set a sup-
portive tone during the critical transi-
tion period into high school. She is also
a class adviser, serves on a number of
school committees, partakes in school
literacy initiatives, and is a member of
the districtwide English Language Arts
Vertical Team.
Linda’s love of teaching extends out-
side of the classroom as well, through
her work with the Flynn Theater for
the Performing Arts as a teacher lead-
er, the Essex Westford Education Asso-
ciation, and the Vermont Writing Col-
laborative.
The 2018 Teacher of the Year Award
is a fitting testament to Linda’s efforts
in and out of the classroom and to her
dedication to her students’ academic
success. She has had an enormously
positive impact on countless young
people in our State and has earned the
respect of her colleagues, students, and
community through her unwavering
commitment to students’ personal and
intellectual growth.
I would like to offer Linda Cloutier-
Namdar my warmest congratulations
on this well-deserved award. Vermont
is honored to have Linda represent our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:03 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.036 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S22 January 3, 2018
State in the National Teacher of the
Year competition.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2017, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on December 22,
2017, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
UPTON) had signed the following en-
rolled bills:
S. 1393. An act to streamline the process by
which active duty military, reservists, and
veterans receive commercial driver’s li-
censes.
S. 1532. An act to disqualify from operating
a commercial motor vehicle for life an indi-
vidual who uses a commercial motor vehicle
in committing a felony involving human
trafficking.
S. 1766. An act to reauthorize the SAFER
Act of 2013, and for other purposes.
H.R. 267. An act to redesignate the Martin
Luther King, Junior, National Historic Site
in the State of Georgia, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 381. An act to designate a mountain in
the John Muir Wilderness of the Sierra Na-
tional Forest as ‘‘Sky Point’’.
H.R. 518. An act to amend the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act to exclude power
supply circuits, drivers, and devices designed
to be connected to, and power, light-emitting
diodes or organic light-emitting diodes pro-
viding illumination from energy conserva-
tion standards for external power supplies,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 560. An act to amend the Delaware
Water Gap National Recreation Area Im-
provement Act to provide access to certain
vehicles serving residents of municipalities
adjacent to the Delaware Water Gap Na-
tional Recreation Area, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 699. An act to amend the Omnibus
Public Land Management Act of 2009 to mod-
ify provisions relating to certain land ex-
changes in the Mt. Hood Wilderness in the
State of Oregon.
H.R. 863. An act to facilitate the addition
of park administration at the Coltsville Na-
tional Historical Park, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 954. An act to remove the use restric-
tions on certain land transferred to Rocking-
ham County, Virginia, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 1242. An act to establish the 400 Years
of African-American History Commission,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 1306. An act to provide for the convey-
ance of certain Federal land in the State of
Oregon, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1927. An act to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish within the National
Park Service the African American Civil
Rights Network, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2142. An act to improve the ability of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection to
interdict fentanyl, other synthetic opioids,
and other narcotics and psychoactive sub-
stances that are illegally imported into the
United States, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2228. An act to provide support for law
enforcement agency efforts to protect the
mental health and well-being of law enforce-
ment officers, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2331. An act to require a new or up-
dated Federal website that is intended for
use by the public to be mobile friendly, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 2611. An act to modify the boundary of
the Little Rock Central High School Na-
tional Historic Site, and for other purposes.
H.R. 4661. An act to reauthorize the United
States Fire Administration, the Assistance
to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire
Prevention and Safety Grants program, and
the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emer-
gency Response grant program, and for other
purposes.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2017, the Act-
ing President pro tempore (Mr.
STRANGE) announced that on December
23, 2017, during the adjournment of the
Senate, he had signed the following en-
rolled bills, which were previously
signed by the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
UPTON):
S. 1393. An act to streamline the process by
which active duty military, reservists, and
veterans receive commercial driver’s li-
censes.
S. 1532. An act to disqualify from operating
a commercial motor vehicle for life an indi-
vidual who uses a commercial motor vehicle
in committing a felony involving human
trafficking.
S. 1766. An act to reauthorize the SAFER
Act of 2013, and for other purposes.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2017, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on December 27,
2017, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the House had passed the fol-
lowing bill, without amendment:
S. 2273. An act to extend the period during
which vessels that are shorter than 79 feet in
length and fishing vessels are not required to
have a permit for discharges incidental to
the normal operation of the vessel.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2017, the Act-
ing President pro tempore (Mr. COT-
TON) announced that on December 27,
2017, during the adjournment of the
Senate, he had signed the following en-
rolled bills, which were previously
signed by the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
UPTON):
H.R. 267. An act to redesignate the Martin
Luther King, Junior, National Historic Site
in the State of Georgia, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 560. An act to amend the Delaware
Water Gap National Recreation Area Im-
provement Act to provide access to certain
vehicles serving residents of municipalities
adjacent to the Delaware Water Gap Na-
tional Recreation Area, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 1242. An act to establish the 400 Years
of African-American History Commission,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 1306. An act to provide for the convey-
ance of certain Federal land in the State of
Oregon, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1927. An act to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish within the National
Park Service the African American Civil
Rights Network, and for other purposes.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2017, the Act-
ing President pro tempore (Mr. TILLIS)
announced that on December 29, 2017,
during the adjournment of the Senate,
he had signed the following enrolled
bills, which were previously signed by
the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. UPTON):
H.R. 381. An act to designate a mountain in
the John Muir Wilderness of the Sierra Na-
tional Forest as ‘‘Sky Point’’.
H.R. 699. An act to amend the Omnibus
Public Land Management Act of 2009 to mod-
ify provisions relating to certain land ex-
changes in the Mt. Hood Wilderness in the
State of Oregon.
H.R. 863. An act to facilitate the addition
of park administration at the Coltsville Na-
tional Historical Park, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 2142. An act to improve the ability of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection to
interdict fentanyl, other synthetic opioids,
and other narcotics and psychoactive sub-
stances that are illegally imported into the
United States, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2228. An act to provide support for law
enforcement agency efforts to protect the
mental health and well-being of law enforce-
ment officers, and for other purposes.
H.R. 2331. An act to require a new or up-
dated Federal website that is intended for
use by the public to be mobile friendly, and
for other purposes.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2017, the Act-
ing President pro tempore (Mr. GRASS-
LEY) announced that on January 2,
2018, during the adjournment of the
Senate, he had signed the following en-
rolled bills, which were previously
signed by the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
UPTON):
H.R. 518. An act to amend the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act to exclude power
supply circuits, drivers, and devices designed
to be connected to, and power, light-emitting
diodes or organic light-emitting diodes pro-
viding illumination from energy conserva-
tion standards for external power supplies,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 954. An act to remove the use restric-
tions on certain land transferred to Rocking-
ham County, Virginia, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 2611. An act to modify the boundary of
the Little Rock Central High School Na-
tional Historic Site, and for other purposes.
H.R. 4661. An act to reauthorize the United
States Fire Administration, the Assistance
to Firefighters Grants program, the Fire
Prevention and Safety Grants program, and
the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emer-
gency Response grant program, and for other
purposes.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2017, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on January 3,
2018, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker pro tempore (Mrs.
COMSTOCK) had signed the following en-
rolled bill:
S. 2273. An act to extend the period during
which vessels that are shorter than 79 feet in
length and fishing vessels are not required to
have a permit for discharges incidental to
the normal operation of the vessel.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2017, the en-
rolled bill was signed on January 3,
2018, during the adjournment of the
Senate, by the Acting President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:58 Apr 18, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD18\JANUARY\S03JA8.PT2 S03JA8
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S23
January 3, 2018
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 2274. A bill to provide for the compensa-
tion of Federal employees affected by lapses
in appropriations.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
H.R. 4667. An act making further supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2018, for disaster assist-
ance for Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and
Maria, and calendar year 2017 wildfires, and
for other purposes.
f
ENROLLED BILLS PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on December 22, 2017, she had pre-
sented to the President of the United
States the following enrolled bill:
S. 1536. An act to designate a human traf-
ficking prevention coordinator and to expand
the scope of activities authorized under the
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administra-
tion’s outreach and education program to in-
clude human trafficking prevention activi-
ties, and for other purposes.
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on December 27, 2017, she had pre-
sented to the President of the United
States the following enrolled bills:
S. 1393. An act to streamline the process by
which active duty military, reservist, and
veterans receive commercial driver’s li-
censes.
S. 1532. An act to disqualify from operating
a commercial motor vehicle for life and indi-
vidual who uses a commercial motor vehicle
in committing a felony involving human
trafficking.
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on today, January 3, 2018, she had
presented to the President of the
United States the following enrolled
bill:
S. 2273. An act to extend the period during
which vessels that are shorter than 79 feet in
length and fishing vessels are not required to
have a permit for discharges incidental to
the normal operation of the vessel.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communication was
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and was referred as indicated:
EC–3832. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the des-
ignation as an emergency requirement all
funding so designated by the Congress in the
Further Additional Continuing Appropria-
tions Act, 2018, pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, as
amended, for the enclosed list of accounts; to
the Committee on the Budget.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. DURBIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
and Mr. CARDIN):
S. 2275. A bill to provide for the adjustment
of status of certain nationals of Liberia to
that of lawful permanent residents and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 253
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
NELSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
253, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to repeal the Medi-
care outpatient rehabilitation therapy
caps.
S. 322
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 322, a bill to protect victims of
domestic violence, sexual assault,
stalking, and dating violence from
emotional and psychological trauma
caused by acts of violence or threats of
violence against their pets.
S. 382
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 382, a bill to require the
Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices to develop a voluntary registry to
collect data on cancer incidence among
firefighters.
S. 448
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 448, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to provide
for treatment of clinical psychologists
as physicians for purposes of furnishing
clinical psychologist services under the
Medicare program.
S. 497
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
497, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for
Medicare coverage of certain
lymphedema compression treatment
items as items of durable medical
equipment.
S. 1018
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1018, a bill to provide humani-
tarian assistance for the Venezuelan
people, to defend democratic govern-
ance and combat widespread public
corruption in Venezuela, and for other
purposes.
S. 1050
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 1050, a bill to
award a Congressional Gold Medal, col-
lectively, to the Chinese-American
Veterans of World War II, in recogni-
tion of their dedicated service during
World War II.
S. 1503
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) and the Senator from
North Dakota (Ms. HEITKAMP) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1503, a bill to
require the Secretary of the Treasury
to mint coins in recognition of the 60th
anniversary of the Naismith Memorial
Basketball Hall of Fame.
S. 1520
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1520, a bill to expand rec-
reational fishing opportunities through
enhanced marine fishery conservation
and management, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1674
At the request of Mr. REED, the name
of the Senator from New York (Mrs.
GILLIBRAND) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1674, a bill to provide grants for
the repair, renovation, and construc-
tion of public elementary schools and
secondary schools, to establish a school
infrastructure bond program, and for
other purposes.
S. 1693
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. SHELBY), the Senator from South
Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS), the Senator from
Kansas (Mr. ROBERTS) and the Senator
from Arkansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1693, a bill to
amend the Communications Act of 1934
to clarify that section 230 of that Act
does not prohibit the enforcement
against providers and users of inter-
active computer services of Federal
and State criminal and civil law relat-
ing to sex trafficking.
S. 1795
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1795, a bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to improve the finan-
cial aid process for homeless children
and youths and foster care children and
youth.
S. 1978
At the request of Ms. HEITKAMP, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1978, a bill to delay the annual fee
on health insurance providers until
2020 and to make such fee tax deduct-
ible.
S. 2060
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2060, a bill to promote de-
mocracy and human rights in Burma,
and for other purposes.
S. 2136
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from Illinois
(Ms. DUCKWORTH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2136, a bill to expand the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.014 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S24 January 3, 2018
monthly payments that may be eligible
for public service loan forgiveness.
S. 2159
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2159, a bill to require covered
harassment and covered discrimination
awareness and prevention training for
Members, officers, employees, interns,
fellows, and detailees of Congress with-
in 30 days of employment and annually
thereafter, to require a biennial cli-
mate survey of Congress, to amend the
enforcement process under the Office of
Congressional Workplace Rights for
covered harassment and covered dis-
crimination complaints, and for other
purposes.
S. 2174
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2174, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to con-
duct a study on the Veterans Crisis
Line.
S. 2203
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from Michi-
gan (Ms. STABENOW) and the Senator
from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2203, a bill to amend
title 9 of the United States Code with
respect to arbitration.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. DURBIN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. CARDIN):
S. 2275. A bill to provide for the ad-
justment of status of certain nationals
of Liberia to that of lawful permanent
residents and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, today I am
introducing the Liberian Refugee Im-
migration Fairness Act of 2018 along
with Senators WHITEHOUSE, DURBIN,
KLOBUCHAR, and CARDIN.
In 1989, a seven-year civil war broke
out in Liberia that would claim the
lives of over 150,000 people and displace
more than half of the Liberian popu-
lation. A second civil war followed
from 1999 to 2003. Then in 2014, Libe-
ria’s recovering health system faced
the challenge of responding to the
Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa.
As a result of all of these tragedies,
thousands of Liberians have sought ref-
uge in the United States, living and
working here under the Temporary
Protected Status (TPS) and Deferred
Enforced Departure (DED) systems.
The simple truth is that the United
States is now home to these law-abid-
ing and tax-paying Liberians. They fled
violence, disease, and turmoil to come
here. Many now have children who are
American citizens, some of whom serve
in the Armed Forces. They have
worked hard, played by the rules, paid
their dues, and submitted to rigorous
background checks and vetting. And,
while I and several of my colleagues
have worked for years to urge the ex-
tension of legal status for this commu-
nity, DED for Liberians is set to expire
next March.
I have offered the Liberian Refugee
Immigration Fairness Act in every
Congress since 1999 because this com-
munity deserves a long-term solution
after decades of uncertainty. If nothing
is done, American families will be
thrown into crisis and torn apart. This
legislation provides legal status and a
pathway to citizenship for qualifying
Liberian refugees.
This legislation is a much-needed
first step for a community in need, and
should be part of any bipartisan and
comprehensive solution for our broken
immigration system. I thank Senators
WHITEHOUSE, DURBIN, KLOBUCHAR, and
CARDIN for cosponsoring this bill and
urge my colleagues to join us to finally
provide citizenship for Liberians who
contribute so much to our American
community.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 1868. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mrs. ERNST)
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 925, to
amend title 38, United States Code, to im-
prove the ability of health care professionals
to treat veterans through the use of tele-
medicine, and for other purposes.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 1868. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mrs.
ERNST) proposed an amendment to the
bill S. 925, to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the ability of
health care professionals to treat vet-
erans through the use of telemedicine,
and for other purposes; as follows:
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Veterans E-
Health and Telemedicine Support Act of
2017’’ or the ‘‘VETS Act of 2017’’.
SEC. 2. LICENSURE OF HEALTH CARE PROFES-
SIONALS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS PROVIDING
TREATMENT VIA TELEMEDICINE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 17 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 1730A the following new sec-
tion:
‘‘§ 1730B. Licensure of health care profes-
sionals providing treatment via telemedi-
cine
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
provision of law regarding the licensure of
health care professionals, a covered health
care professional may practice the health
care profession of the health care profes-
sional at any location in any State, regard-
less of where the covered health care profes-
sional or the patient is located, if the cov-
ered health care professional is using tele-
medicine to provide treatment to an indi-
vidual under this chapter.
‘‘(b) COVERED HEALTH CARE PROFES-
SIONALS.—For purposes of this section, a cov-
ered health care professional is any health
care professional who—
‘‘(1) is an employee of the Department ap-
pointed under the authority under section
7306, 7401, 7405, 7406, or 7408 of this title or
title 5;
‘‘(2) is authorized by the Secretary to pro-
vide health care under this chapter;
‘‘(3) is required to adhere to all standards
of quality relating to the provision of medi-
cine in accordance with applicable policies of
the Department; and
‘‘(4) has an active, current, full, and unre-
stricted license, registration, or certification
in a State to practice the health care profes-
sion of the health care professional.
‘‘(c) PROPERTY OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—
Subsection (a) shall apply to a covered
health care professional providing treatment
to a patient regardless of whether the cov-
ered health care professional or patient is lo-
cated in a facility owned by the Federal Gov-
ernment during such treatment.
‘‘(d) RELATION TO STATE LAW.—(1) The pro-
visions of this section shall supersede any
provisions of the law of any State to the ex-
tent that such provision of State law are in-
consistent with this section.
‘‘(2) No State shall deny or revoke the li-
cense, registration, or certification of a cov-
ered health care professional who otherwise
meets the qualifications of the State for
holding the license, registration, or certifi-
cation on the basis that the covered health
care professional has engaged or intends to
engage in activity covered by subsection (a).
‘‘(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section may be construed to remove,
limit, or otherwise affect any obligation of a
covered health care professional under the
Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et
seq.).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 17 of
such title is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 1730A the following
new item:
‘‘1730B. Licensure of health care profes-
sionals providing treatment via
telemedicine.’’.
(c) REPORT ON TELEMEDICINE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the earlier of the date on which serv-
ices provided under section 1730B of title 38,
United States Code, as added by subsection
(a), first occur or regulations are promul-
gated to carry out such section, the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the
Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives a re-
port on the effectiveness of the use of tele-
medicine by the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include an assessment of
the following:
(A) The satisfaction of veterans with tele-
medicine furnished by the Department.
(B) The satisfaction of health care pro-
viders in providing telemedicine furnished by
the Department.
(C) The effect of telemedicine furnished by
the Department on the following:
(i) The ability of veterans to access health
care, whether from the Department or from
non-Department health care providers.
(ii) The frequency of use by veterans of
telemedicine.
(iii) The productivity of health care pro-
viders.
(iv) Wait times for an appointment for the
receipt of health care from the Department.
(v) The use by veterans of in-person serv-
ices at Department facilities and non-De-
partment facilities.
(D) The types of appointments for the re-
ceipt of telemedicine furnished by the De-
partment that were provided during the one-
year period preceding the submittal of the
report.
(E) The number of appointments for the re-
ceipt of telemedicine furnished by the De-
partment that were requested during such
period, disaggregated by medical facility.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:00 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.018 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S25
January 3, 2018
(F) Savings by the Department, if any, in-
cluding travel costs, from furnishing health
care through the use of telemedicine during
such period.
f
VETERANS E-HEALTH AND TELE-
MEDICINE SUPPORT ACT OF 2017
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. 925 and the Senate proceed to its im-
mediate consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 925) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the ability of health
care professionals to treat veterans through
the use of telemedicine, and for other pur-
poses.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Ernst amendment at
the desk be considered and agreed to,
the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time and passed, and the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 1868) in the na-
ture of a substitute was agreed to, as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the enacting clause and in-
sert the following:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Veterans
E-Health and Telemedicine Support Act of
2017’’ or the ‘‘VETS Act of 2017’’.
SEC. 2. LICENSURE OF HEALTH CARE PROFES-
SIONALS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS PROVIDING
TREATMENT VIA TELEMEDICINE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 17 of title 38,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 1730A the following new sec-
tion:
‘‘§ 1730B. Licensure of health care profes-
sionals providing treatment via telemedi-
cine
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
provision of law regarding the licensure of
health care professionals, a covered health
care professional may practice the health
care profession of the health care profes-
sional at any location in any State, regard-
less of where the covered health care profes-
sional or the patient is located, if the cov-
ered health care professional is using tele-
medicine to provide treatment to an indi-
vidual under this chapter.
‘‘(b) COVERED HEALTH CARE PROFES-
SIONALS.—For purposes of this section, a cov-
ered health care professional is any health
care professional who—
‘‘(1) is an employee of the Department ap-
pointed under the authority under section
7306, 7401, 7405, 7406, or 7408 of this title or
title 5;
‘‘(2) is authorized by the Secretary to pro-
vide health care under this chapter;
‘‘(3) is required to adhere to all standards
of quality relating to the provision of medi-
cine in accordance with applicable policies of
the Department; and
‘‘(4) has an active, current, full, and unre-
stricted license, registration, or certification
in a State to practice the health care profes-
sion of the health care professional.
‘‘(c) PROPERTY OF FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.—
Subsection (a) shall apply to a covered
health care professional providing treatment
to a patient regardless of whether the cov-
ered health care professional or patient is lo-
cated in a facility owned by the Federal Gov-
ernment during such treatment.
‘‘(d) RELATION TO STATE LAW.—(1) The pro-
visions of this section shall supersede any
provisions of the law of any State to the ex-
tent that such provision of State law are in-
consistent with this section.
‘‘(2) No State shall deny or revoke the li-
cense, registration, or certification of a cov-
ered health care professional who otherwise
meets the qualifications of the State for
holding the license, registration, or certifi-
cation on the basis that the covered health
care professional has engaged or intends to
engage in activity covered by subsection (a).
‘‘(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section may be construed to remove,
limit, or otherwise affect any obligation of a
covered health care professional under the
Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 801 et
seq.).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections at the beginning of chapter 17 of
such title is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 1730A the following
new item:
‘‘1730B. Licensure of health care profes-
sionals providing treatment via
telemedicine.’’.
(c) REPORT ON TELEMEDICINE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the earlier of the date on which serv-
ices provided under section 1730B of title 38,
United States Code, as added by subsection
(a), first occur or regulations are promul-
gated to carry out such section, the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the
Senate and the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives a re-
port on the effectiveness of the use of tele-
medicine by the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs.
(2) ELEMENTS.—The report required by
paragraph (1) shall include an assessment of
the following:
(A) The satisfaction of veterans with tele-
medicine furnished by the Department.
(B) The satisfaction of health care pro-
viders in providing telemedicine furnished by
the Department.
(C) The effect of telemedicine furnished by
the Department on the following:
(i) The ability of veterans to access health
care, whether from the Department or from
non-Department health care providers.
(ii) The frequency of use by veterans of
telemedicine.
(iii) The productivity of health care pro-
viders.
(iv) Wait times for an appointment for the
receipt of health care from the Department.
(v) The use by veterans of in-person serv-
ices at Department facilities and non-De-
partment facilities.
(D) The types of appointments for the re-
ceipt of telemedicine furnished by the De-
partment that were provided during the one-
year period preceding the submittal of the
report.
(E) The number of appointments for the re-
ceipt of telemedicine furnished by the De-
partment that were requested during such
period, disaggregated by medical facility.
(F) Savings by the Department, if any, in-
cluding travel costs, from furnishing health
care through the use of telemedicine during
such period.
The bill (S. 925), as amended, was or-
dered to be engrossed for a third read-
ing, was read the third time, and
passed.
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 4667
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand that there is a bill at the
desk, and I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the bill by title for the
first time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 4667) making further supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2018, for disaster assist-
ance for Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and
Maria, and calendar year 2017 wildfires, and
for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I now ask for a
second reading and, in order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to my own
request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
read for the second time on the next
legislative day.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY,
JANUARY 4, 2018
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 11 a.m., Thursday, Janu-
ary 4; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, and the
time for the two leaders be reserved for
their use later in the day; further, fol-
lowing leader remarks, the Senate pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the Counts nomina-
tion; finally, that the Senate recess
from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 11 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
if there is no further business to come
before the Senate, I ask unanimous
consent that it stand adjourned under
the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:35 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
January 4, 2018, at 11 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS RETURNED TO THE
PRESIDENT
Wednesday, January 3, 2018
The following nominations trans-
mitted by the President of the United
States to the Senate during the first
session of the 115th Congress, and upon
which no action was had at the time of
the sine die adjournment of the Senate,
failed of confirmation under the provi-
sions of Rule XXXI, paragraph 6, of the
Standing Rules of the Senate.
AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS
LEON A. WESTMORELAND, OF GEORGIA, TO BE A DIREC-
TOR OF THE AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR A TERM
OF FIVE YEARS.
CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
ANN MARIE BUERKLE, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A COMMIS-
SIONER OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM OF SEVEN YEARS FROM OCTOBER 27,
2018.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.027 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S26 January 3, 2018
ANN MARIE BUERKLE, OF NEW YORK, TO BE CHAIRMAN
OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION.
DANA BAIOCCO, OF OHIO, TO BE A COMMISSIONER OF
THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION FOR A
TERM OF SEVEN YEARS FROM OCTOBER 27, 2017.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
SAMUEL H. CLOVIS, JR., OF IOWA, TO BE UNDER SEC-
RETARY OF AGRICULTURE FOR RESEARCH, EDUCATION,
AND ECONOMICS.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BARRY LEE MYERS, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE UNDER
SECRETARY OF COMMERCE FOR OCEANS AND ATMOS-
PHERE.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
CHARLES DOUGLAS STIMSON, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE GEN-
ERAL COUNSEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY.
DEAN L. WINSLOW, OF DELAWARE, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
ALEX A. BEEHLER, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF THE ARMY.
MICHAEL D. GRIFFIN, OF ALABAMA, TO BE A PRIN-
CIPAL DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
PHYLLIS L. BAYER, OF MISSISSIPPI, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF THE NAVY.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
JAMES BLEW, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY FOR PLANNING, EVALUATION, AND POLICY DE-
VELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION.
MITCHELL ZAIS, OF SOUTH CAROLINA, TO BE DEPUTY
SECRETARY OF EDUCATION.
KENNETH L. MARCUS, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY FOR CIVIL RIGHTS, DEPARTMENT OF EDU-
CATION.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
DAVID S. JONAS, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE GENERAL COUN-
SEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
BRETT GIROIR, OF TEXAS, TO BE MEDICAL DIRECTOR
IN THE REGULAR CORPS OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH SERV-
ICE, SUBJECT TO THE QUALIFICATIONS THEREFOR AS
PROVIDED BY LAW AND REGULATIONS, AND TO BE AN
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERV-
ICES.
STEPHEN PARENTE, OF MINNESOTA, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.
ALEX MICHAEL AZAR II, OF INDIANA, TO BE SEC-
RETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
KEVIN K. MCALEENAN, OF HAWAII, TO BE COMMIS-
SIONER OF U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION, DE-
PARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
BRIAN D. MONTGOMERY, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOP-
MENT.
ROBERT HUNTER KURTZ, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVEL-
OPMENT.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
BRIAN ALLEN BENCZKOWSKI, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN
ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL.
JEFFREY BOSSERT CLARK, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL.
ERIC S. DREIBAND, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT ATTORNEY GENERAL.
JESSE SEROYER, JR., OF ALABAMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF ALA-
BAMA FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
JOSEPH H. HUNT, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
PATRICK PIZZELLA, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE DEPUTY SEC-
RETARY OF LABOR.
CHERYL MARIE STANTON, OF SOUTH CAROLINA, TO BE
ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION, DE-
PARTMENT OF LABOR.
WILLIAM BEACH, OF KANSAS, TO BE COMMISSIONER OF
LABOR STATISTICS, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, FOR A
TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
SCOTT A. MUGNO, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF LABOR.
JAMES EDWIN WILLIAMS, OF UTAH, TO BE CHIEF FI-
NANCIAL OFFICER, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAY PATRICK MURRAY, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ALTER-
NATE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA FOR SPECIAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS IN THE
UNITED NATIONS, WITH THE RANK OF AMBASSADOR.
JAY PATRICK MURRAY, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN ALTER-
NATE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA TO THE SESSIONS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
OF THE UNITED NATIONS, DURING HIS TENURE OF SERV-
ICE AS ALTERNATE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA FOR SPECIAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS
IN THE UNITED NATIONS.
DOUG MANCHESTER, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE COMMON-
WEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS.
KATHLEEN TROIA MCFARLAND, OF NEW YORK, TO BE
AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC
OF SINGAPORE.
ERIC M. UELAND, OF OREGON, TO BE AN UNDER SEC-
RETARY OF STATE (MANAGEMENT).
SAMUEL DALE BROWNBACK, OF KANSAS, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR AT LARGE FOR INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM.
RICHARD GRENELL, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE FEDERAL RE-
PUBLIC OF GERMANY.
JAMES RANDOLPH EVANS, OF GEORGIA, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO LUXEMBOURG.
STEPHEN AKARD, OF INDIANA, TO BE DIRECTOR GEN-
ERAL OF THE FOREIGN SERVICE.
YLEEM D. S. POBLETE, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF STATE (VERIFICATION AND COMPLI-
ANCE).
SUSAN A. THORNTON, OF MAINE, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER-
COUNSELOR, TO BE AN ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF
STATE (EAST ASIAN AND PACIFIC AFFAIRS).
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
SUSAN COMBS, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
RYAN DOUGLAS NELSON, OF IDAHO, TO BE SOLICITOR
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
ADAM LERRICK, OF WYOMING, TO BE A DEPUTY UNDER
SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
ISABEL MARIE KEENAN PATELUNAS, OF PENNSYL-
VANIA, TO BE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR INTEL-
LIGENCE AND ANALYSIS, DEPARTMENT OF THE TREAS-
URY.
DAVID J. RYDER, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE MINT FOR A TERM OF FIVE YEARS.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
PAUL TROMBINO III, OF WISCONSIN, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION.
DIANA FURCHTGOTT-ROTH, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
MICHAEL DOURSON, OF OHIO, TO BE ASSISTANT ADMIN-
ISTRATOR FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES OF THE ENVIRON-
MENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY.
ANDREW WHEELER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE DEPUTY AD-
MINISTRATOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
KATHLEEN HARTNETT WHITE, OF TEXAS, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUAL-
ITY.
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
SCOTT GARRETT, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE PRESIDENT
OF THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 20, 2021.
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
BRENDAN CARR, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FOR A
TERM OF FIVE YEARS FROM JULY 1, 2018.
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
JELENA MCWILLIAMS, OF OHIO, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE FEDERAL DEPOSIT
INSURANCE CORPORATION FOR A TERM OF SIX YEARS.
JELENA MCWILLIAMS, OF OHIO, TO BE CHAIRPERSON
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE FEDERAL DE-
POSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION FOR A TERM OF FIVE
YEARS.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
JAMES E. TRAINOR III, OF TEXAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION FOR A TERM EX-
PIRING APRIL 30, 2023.
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
RANDAL QUARLES, OF COLORADO, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE
SYSTEM FOR THE TERM OF FOURTEEN YEARS FROM
FEBRUARY 1, 2018.
JEROME H. POWELL, OF MARYLAND, TO BE CHAIRMAN
OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RE-
SERVE SYSTEM FOR A TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
MARVIN GOODFRIEND, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FED-
ERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FOR A TERM OF FOURTEEN
YEARS FROM FEBRUARY 1, 2016.
FINANCIAL STABILITY OVERSIGHT COUNCIL
THOMAS E. WORKMAN, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE FINANCIAL STABILITY OVERSIGHT COUNCIL FOR
A TERM OF SIX YEARS.
NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
ADMINISTRATION
JAMES BRIDENSTINE, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE
ADMINISTRATION.
JEFFREY DEWIT, OF ARIZONA, TO BE CHIEF FINANCIAL
OFFICER, NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINIS-
TRATION.
OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND
ENFORCEMENT
STEVEN GARDNER, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE OFFICE OF SURFACE MINING RECLAMATION AND
ENFORCEMENT.
THE JUDICIARY
DAMIEN MICHAEL SCHIFF, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A
JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL
CLAIMS FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
DAVID RYAN STRAS, OF MINNESOTA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
STEPHEN S. SCHWARTZ, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A JUDGE
OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS
FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
THOMAS ALVIN FARR, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF NORTH CAROLINA.
CHARLES BARNES GOODWIN, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN
DISTRICT OF OKLAHOMA.
MARK SAALFIELD NORRIS, SR., OF TENNESSEE, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN
DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
WILLIAM M. RAY II, OF GEORGIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF GEORGIA.
ELI JEREMY RICHARDSON, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE MIDDLE DIS-
TRICT OF TENNESSEE.
ANNEMARIE CARNEY AXON, OF ALABAMA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN
DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
LILES CLIFTON BURKE, OF ALABAMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF ALABAMA.
MICHAEL B. BRENNAN, OF WISCONSIN, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
MICHAEL JOSEPH JUNEAU, OF LOUISIANA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
HOLLY LOU TEETER, OF KANSAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF KANSAS.
JEFFREY UHLMAN BEAVERSTOCK, OF ALABAMA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
RYAN WESLEY BOUNDS, OF OREGON, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
TERRY FITZGERALD MOORER, OF ALABAMA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF ALABAMA.
BRETT JOSEPH TALLEY, OF ALABAMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF
ALABAMA.
ELIZABETH L. BRANCH, OF GEORGIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT.
MATTHEW J. KACSMARYK, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS.
EMILY COODY MARKS, OF ALABAMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE MIDDLE DISTRICT OF
ALABAMA.
JEFFREY CARL MATEER, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT
OF TEXAS.
MATTHEW SPENCER PETERSEN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
BARRY W. ASHE, OF LOUISIANA, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOU-
ISIANA.
DANIEL DESMOND DOMENICO, OF COLORADO, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF
COLORADO.
STUART KYLE DUNCAN, OF LOUISIANA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
KURT D. ENGELHARDT, OF LOUISIANA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
IN THE NAVY
NAVY NOMINATION OF CAPT. PAUL A. STADER, TO BE
REAR ADMIRAL (LOWER HALF).
IN THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF DAVID P. HAWORTH, TO BE
COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF DORI M. BAKER, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
FOREIGN SERVICE
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATION OF KENNETH W.
MACLEAN.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATION OF TANYA S.
URQUIETA.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATION OF DAVID A. ASHFORD.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATION OF DAVID CHARLES
MILLER.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MI-
CHAEL ASHKOURI AND ENDING WITH OMAR ROBLES,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON
SEPTEMBER 5, 2017.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate January 3, 2018:
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
JOHN C. ROOD, OF ARIZONA, TO BE UNDER SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE FOR POLICY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.006 S03JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1
January 3, 2018
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
January 4, 2018 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
JANUARY 9
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine combating
money laundering and other forms of
illicit finance, focusing on opportuni-
ties to reform and strengthen Bank Se-
crecy Act enforcement.
SD–538
Committee on Finance
To hold hearings to examine the antici-
pated nomination of Alex Michael Azar
II, of Indiana, to be Secretary of Health
and Human Services.
SD–215
Committee on Foreign Relations
Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere,
Transnational Crime, Civilian Secu-
rity, Democracy, Human Rights, and
Global Women’s Issues
To hold hearings to examine attacks on
United States diplomats in Cuba, fo-
cusing on response and oversight.
SD–419
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
To hold hearings to examine the opioid
crisis, focusing on how to move for-
ward.
SD–430
2:30 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SH–219
JANUARY 10
10 a.m.
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine America’s
water infrastructure needs and chal-
lenges.
SD–406
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
JANUARY 11
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SH–219
JANUARY 16
10 a.m.
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
the Department of Homeland Security.
SH–216
JANUARY 17
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Indian Affairs
To hold an oversight hearing to examine
breaking new ground in agribusiness
opportunities in Indian Country.
SD–628
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:39 Jan 04, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M03JA8.000 E03JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK9F9SC42PROD
with
REMARKS
D1
Wednesday, January 3, 2018
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Second Session of the One Hundred and Fifteenth Congress convened as
prescribed by the Constitution of the United States.
Senator-Elect Doug Jones, of Alabama, was administered the oath of of-
fice by the Vice President.
Senator-Designate Tina Smith, of Minnesota, was administered the oath
of office by the Vice President.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1–S26
Measures Introduced: One bill was introduced, as
follows: S. 2275. Page S23
Measures Passed:
VETS Act: Committee on Veterans’ Affairs was dis-
charged from further consideration of S. 925, to
amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the
ability of health care professionals to treat veterans
through the use of telemedicine, and the bill was
then passed, after agreeing to the following amend-
ment proposed thereto: Page S25
McConnell (for Ernst) Amendment No. 1868, in
the nature of a substitute. Page S25
Senator Franken Letter of Resignation—
Agreement: A unanimous-consent agreement was
reached providing that the resignation letter of
former Senator Al Franken to Governor Dayton be
read and spread upon the Journal and printed in the
Record. Page S20
Campbell Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of the nomination of William L.
Campbell, Jr., of Tennessee, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Middle District of Tennessee.
Page S20
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Wednesday, January 3, 2018, a vote on
cloture will occur at 5:30 p.m. on Monday, January
8, 2018. Page S20
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S20
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S20
Parker Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Thomas Lee Robin-
son Parker, of Tennessee, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Western District of Tennessee.
Page S20
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of William L. Campbell, Jr., of
Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for the
Middle District of Tennessee. Page S20
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S20
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S20
Brown Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Michael Lawrence
Brown, of Georgia, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Georgia. Page S20
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Thomas Lee Robinson Parker,
of Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Tennessee. Page S20
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Jan 10, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD18\D03JA8.PT2 D03JA8
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D2 January 3, 2018
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S20
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S20
Counts Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Walter David Counts
III, of Texas, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Texas. Page S21
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Michael Lawrence Brown, of
Georgia, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Georgia. Page S21
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S20
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S21
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination at
approximately 11 a.m. on Thursday, January 4,
2018. Page S25
Nominations—Agreement: A unanimous-consent
agreement was reached providing that notwith-
standing Rule XXII, the pending cloture motions
ripen at 5:30 p.m. on Monday, January 8, 2018.
Page S21
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 81 yeas to 7 nays (Vote No. EX. 1), John C.
Rood, of Arizona, to be Under Secretary of Defense
for Policy. Pages S19–20, S26
Nominations Returned to the President: The fol-
lowing nominations were returned to the President
failing of confirmation under Senate Rule XXXI at
the time of the adjournment of the 115th Congress:
Adam Lerrick, of Wyoming, to be a Deputy
Under Secretary of the Treasury.
Damien Michael Schiff, of California, to be a
Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims
for a term of fifteen years.
David Ryan Stras, of Minnesota, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit.
Jay Patrick Murray, of Virginia, to be Alternate
Representative of the United States of America for
Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with
the rank of Ambassador.
Jay Patrick Murray, of Virginia, to be an Alter-
nate Representative of the United States of America
to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the
United Nations, during his tenure of service as Al-
ternate Representative of the United States of Amer-
ica for Special Political Affairs in the United Na-
tions.
Doug Manchester, of California, to be Ambassador
to the Commonwealth of The Bahamas.
Kevin K. McAleenan, of Hawaii, to be Commis-
sioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, De-
partment of Homeland Security.
David S. Jonas, of Virginia, to be General Counsel
of the Department of Energy.
Brett Giroir, of Texas, to be Medical Director in
the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, sub-
ject to the qualifications therefor as provided by law
and regulations, and to be an Assistant Secretary of
Health and Human Services.
Charles Douglas Stimson, of Virginia, to be Gen-
eral Counsel of the Department of the Navy.
Stephen Parente, of Minnesota, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Brian Allen Benczkowski, of Virginia, to be an
Assistant Attorney General.
Jeffrey Bossert Clark, of Virginia, to be an Assist-
ant Attorney General.
Stephen S. Schwartz, of Virginia, to be a Judge of
the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term
of fifteen years.
Kathleen Troia McFarland, of New York, to be
Ambassador to the Republic of Singapore.
Eric M. Ueland, of Oregon, to be an Under Sec-
retary of State (Management).
Scott Garrett, of New Jersey, to be President of
the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a
term expiring January 20, 2021.
Isabel Marie Keenan Patelunas, of Pennsylvania, to
be Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis,
Department of the Treasury.
Patrick Pizzella, of Virginia, to be Deputy Sec-
retary of Labor.
Eric S. Dreiband, of Maryland, to be an Assistant
Attorney General.
Brendan Carr, of Virginia, to be a Member of the
Federal Communications Commission for a term of
five years from July 1, 2018.
Randal Quarles, of Colorado, to be a Member of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem for the term of fourteen years from February 1,
2018.
Susan Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of the Interior.
Thomas Alvin Farr, of North Carolina, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of North Carolina.
Charles Barnes Goodwin, of Oklahoma, to be
United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of Oklahoma.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Jan 10, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD18\D03JA8.PT2 D03JA8
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D3
January 3, 2018
Mark Saalfield Norris, Sr., of Tennessee, to be
United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of Tennessee.
William M. Ray II, of Georgia, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Georgia.
Eli Jeremy Richardson, of Tennessee, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle District of Ten-
nessee.
Michael Dourson, of Ohio, to be Assistant Ad-
ministrator for Toxic Substances of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency.
Annemarie Carney Axon, of Alabama, to be
United States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Alabama.
Liles Clifton Burke, of Alabama, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Alabama.
Samuel H. Clovis, Jr., of Iowa, to be Under Sec-
retary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and
Economics.
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be a Com-
missioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commis-
sion for a term of seven years from October 27,
2018.
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be Chairman
of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
Samuel Dale Brownback, of Kansas, to be Ambas-
sador at Large for International Religious Freedom.
Ryan Douglas Nelson, of Idaho, to be Solicitor of
the Department of the Interior.
Michael B. Brennan, of Wisconsin, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Seventh Circuit.
Michael Joseph Juneau, of Louisiana, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of
Louisiana.
Holly Lou Teeter, of Kansas, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Kansas.
Dean L. Winslow, of Delaware, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Defense.
James Bridenstine, of Oklahoma, to be Adminis-
trator of the National Aeronautics and Space Admin-
istration.
Richard Grenell, of California, to be Ambassador
to the Federal Republic of Germany.
Cheryl Marie Stanton, of South Carolina, to be
Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, De-
partment of Labor.
Jeffrey Uhlman Beaverstock, of Alabama, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Alabama.
Ryan Wesley Bounds, of Oregon, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Terry Fitzgerald Moorer, of Alabama, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Alabama.
Brett Joseph Talley, of Alabama, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle District of Ala-
bama.
Elizabeth L. Branch, of Georgia, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit.
Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, of Texas, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Texas.
Emily Coody Marks, of Alabama, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle District of Ala-
bama.
Jeffrey Carl Mateer, of Texas, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Texas.
Paul Trombino III, of Wisconsin, to be Adminis-
trator of the Federal Highway Administration.
Matthew Spencer Petersen, of Virginia, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Co-
lumbia.
Brian D. Montgomery, of Texas, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
James E. Trainor III, of Texas, to be a Member
of the Federal Election Commission for a term expir-
ing April 30, 2023.
Robert Hunter Kurtz, of Virginia, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
Dana Baiocco, of Ohio, to be a Commissioner of
the Consumer Product Safety Commission for a term
of seven years from October 27, 2017.
James Randolph Evans, of Georgia, to be Ambas-
sador to Luxembourg.
James Blew, of California, to be Assistant Sec-
retary for Planning, Evaluation, and Policy Develop-
ment, Department of Education.
Jesse Seroyer, Jr., of Alabama, to be United States
Marshal for the Middle District of Alabama for the
term of four years.
Diana Furchtgott-Roth, of Maryland, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of Transportation.
Barry W. Ashe, of Louisiana, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
Daniel Desmond Domenico, of Colorado, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Colo-
rado.
Stuart Kyle Duncan, of Louisiana, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit.
David J. Ryder, of New Jersey, to be Director of
the Mint for a term of five years.
Leon A. Westmoreland, of Georgia, to be a Direc-
tor of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of
five years.
Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Deputy Ad-
ministrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Mitchell Zais, of South Carolina, to be Deputy
Secretary of Education.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Jan 10, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD18\D03JA8.PT2 D03JA8
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D4 January 3, 2018
Kurt D. Engelhardt, of Louisiana, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit.
Alex A. Beehler, of Maryland, to be an Assistant
Secretary of the Army.
Barry Lee Myers, of Pennsylvania, to be Under
Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere.
Kathleen Hartnett White, of Texas, to be a Mem-
ber of the Council on Environmental Quality.
Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be Director General
of the Foreign Service.
Yleem D. S. Poblete, of Virginia, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of State (Verification and Compliance).
William Beach, of Kansas, to be Commissioner of
Labor Statistics, Department of Labor, for a term of
four years.
Steven Gardner, of Kentucky, to be Director of
the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and En-
forcement.
Kenneth L. Marcus, of Virginia, to be Assistant
Secretary for Civil Rights, Department of Education.
Michael D. Griffin, of Alabama, to be a Principal
Deputy Under Secretary of Defense.
Scott A. Mugno, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of Labor.
Jerome H. Powell, of Maryland, to be Chairman
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System for a term of four years.
Alex Michael Azar II, of Indiana, to be Secretary
of Health and Human Services.
Marvin Goodfriend, of Pennsylvania, to be a
Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System for a term of fourteen years from
February 1, 2016.
Phyllis L. Bayer, of Mississippi, to be an Assistant
Secretary of the Navy.
Thomas E. Workman, of New York, to be a
Member of the Financial Stability Oversight Council
for a term of six years.
Jeffrey DeWit, of Arizona, to be Chief Financial
Officer, National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion.
James Edwin Williams, of Utah, to be Chief Fi-
nancial Officer, Department of Labor.
Jelena McWilliams, of Ohio, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation for a term of six years.
Jelena McWilliams, of Ohio, to be Chairperson of
the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation for a term of five years.
Joseph H. Hunt, of Maryland, to be an Assistant
Attorney General.
Susan A. Thornton, of Maine, to be an Assistant
Secretary of State (East Asian and Pacific Affairs).
1 Navy nomination in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force and Foreign Service.
Pages S25–26
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Pages S2, S23
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S23, S25
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S23
Executive Communications: Page S23
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S23–24
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S24
Additional Statements: Pages S21–22
Amendments Submitted: Pages S24–25
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—1) Pages S19–20
Adjournment: Senate convened at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 6:35 p.m., until 11 a.m. on Thursday,
January 4, 2018. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S25.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: There
were no public bills or resolutions introduced today.
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 3776, to support United States international
cyber diplomacy, and for other purposes, with an
amendment (H. Rept. 115–483); and
H.R. 3445, to enhance the transparency and accel-
erate the impact of programs under the African
Growth and Opportunity Act and the Millennium
Challenge Corporation, and for other purposes (H.
Rept. 115–484). Page H1
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein he
appointed Representative McHenry to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Jan 10, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD18\D03JA8.PT2 D03JA8
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D5
January 3, 2018
Convening of the Second Session of the 115th
Congress: Pursuant to the 20th Amendment to the
Constitution, the House met at 12 noon on January
3, 2018 for the convening of the second session of
the One Hundred Fifteenth Congress. Pursuant to
section 4(a) of H. Res. 670, the Chair announced
that no organizational or legislative business will be
conducted on this day. The Chair further announced
that messages requiring action will be laid before the
House on a subsequent day and that bills and resolu-
tions introduced today will receive a number but
will not be referred to committee or noted in the
Record until a subsequent day. Executive commu-
nications, memorials, and petitions likewise will be
referred and numbered on a subsequent day. Page H1
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no yea-and-nay
votes, and there were no recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and at
12:03 p.m. the House stands adjourned until 12
noon on Friday, January 5, 2018, pursuant to section
4(c) of H. Res. 670.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
JANUARY 4, 2018
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of January 4 through January 5, 2018
Senate Chamber
On Thursday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Walter David Counts III, of
Texas, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Texas.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House Committees
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Jan 10, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD18\D03JA8.PT2 D03JA8
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D6 January 3, 2018
Next Meeting of the SENATE
11 a.m., Thursday, January 4
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Walter David Counts III, of
Texas, to be United States District Judge for the Western
District of Texas.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Friday, January 5
House Calendar
Program for Friday: House will meet in Pro Forma ses-
sion at 12 noon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:03 Jan 10, 2018 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\RECORD18\D03JA8.PT2 D03JA8
